@node ax_afs
@unnumberedsec ax_afs

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_AFS
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This sets up the proper includes and libs needed for building programs
that link with AFS. It adds a --with-afsdir option that lets you specify
where the AFS includes and libs are (defaulting to /usr/afsws).

It also adds the -I and -L options to CPPFLAGS and LDFLAGS

It creates an AC_SUBST(AFSWS) that contains the directory being used.

It checks for -lBSD, -lsocket and -lnsl since AFS needs those if they
exist. It also adds -R/usr/ucblib -L/usr/ucblib -lucb if on Solaris.

It sets VICE_ETC_PATH to be the directory where /usr/vice/etc lives,
since AFS 3.4 uses a different define than AFS 3.5 does for that path.

Finally, it defines AFS_int32 to be the in32 type needed. In older
versions of afs it was 'int32', and in newer versions it's 'afs_int32'.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_afs.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_afs.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_afs.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Scott Grosch @email{Scott.Grosch@@intel.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
