@node ax_am_jobserver
@unnumberedsec ax_am_jobserver

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_AM_JOBSERVER([default_value])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Enables the use of make's jobserver for the purpose of parallel building
by passing the -j option to make.

The option --enable-jobserver is added to configure which can accept a
yes, no, or an integer. The integer is the number of separate jobs to
allow. If 'yes' is given, then the is assumed to be one more than the
number of CPUs (determined through AX_COUNT_CPUS). If the value of no is
given, then the jobserver is disabled. The default value is given by the
first argument of the macro, or 'yes' if the argument is omitted.

This macro makes use of AX_AM_MACROS, so you must add the following line

@smallexample
  @@INC_AMINCLUDE@@
@end smallexample

to your Makefile.am files.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_am_jobserver.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_am_jobserver.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_am_jobserver.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Michael Paul Bailey @email{jinxidoru@@byu.net}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
