@node ax_arg_with_path_style
@unnumberedsec ax_arg_with_path_style

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_ARG_WITH_PATH_STYLE
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

_AC_DEFINE(PATH_STYLE) describing the filesys interface. The value is
numeric, where the basetype is encoded as 16 = dos/win, 32 = unix, 64 =
url/www, 0 = other

some extra semantics are described in other bits of the value,
especially

@smallexample
 1024  accepts "/" as a dir separator
 2048  accepts ";" as a path separator
 4096  accepts "," as a path separator
@end smallexample

the macro provides a configure' --with-path-style option that can be
used with descriptive arg names. If not explicitly given, the $target_os
will be checked to provide a sane default. Additional (lower) bits can
be used by the user for some additional magic, higher bits are reserved
for this macro.

the mnemonic "strict" or "also" is used to instruct the code that
additional separators shall be accepted but converted to the separator
of the underlying pathstyle system. (or-512)

@smallexample
 example: --with-path-style=win,slash
          to make it accept ";" as pathsep, and
          both "/" and "\" as dirseps.
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_arg_with_path_style.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_arg_with_path_style.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_arg_with_path_style.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
