@node ax_add_fortify_source
@unnumberedsec ax_add_fortify_source

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_ADD_FORTIFY_SOURCE
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check whether -D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2 can be added to CPPFLAGS without macro
redefinition warnings, other cpp warnings or linker. Some distributions
(such as Gentoo Linux) enable _FORTIFY_SOURCE globally in their
compilers, leading to unnecessary warnings in the form of

@smallexample
  <command-line>:0:0: error: "_FORTIFY_SOURCE" redefined [-Werror]
  <built-in>: note: this is the location of the previous definition
@end smallexample

which is a problem if -Werror is enabled. This macro checks whether
_FORTIFY_SOURCE is already defined, and if not, adds -D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2
to CPPFLAGS.

Newer mingw-w64 msys2 package comes with a bug in
headers-git-7.0.0.5546.d200317d-1. It broke -D_FORTIFY_SOURCE support,
and would need -lssp or -fstack-protector.  See
https://github.com/msys2/MINGW-packages/issues/5803. Try to actually
link it.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_add_fortify_source.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_add_fortify_source.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_add_fortify_source.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2017 David Seifert @email{soap@@gentoo.org}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2019 Reini Urban @email{rurban@@cpan.org}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
