@node ax_blas_f77_func
@unnumberedsec ax_blas_f77_func

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_BLAS_F77_FUNC([ACTION-IF-PASS[, ACTION-IF-FAIL[, ACTION-IF-CROSS-COMPILING]])
AX_BLAS_WITH_F77_FUNC([ACTION-IF-FOUND-AND-PASS[, ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND-OR-FAIL]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

These macros are intended as a supplement to the AX_BLAS macro, to
verify that BLAS functions are properly callable from Fortran. This is
necessary, for example, if you want to build the LAPACK library on top
of the BLAS.

AX_BLAS_F77_FUNC uses the defined BLAS_LIBS and Fortran environment to
check for compatibility, and takes a specific action in case of success,
resp. failure, resp. cross-compilation.

AX_BLAS_WITH_F77_FUNC is a drop-in replacement wrapper for AX_BLAS that
calls AX_BLAS_F77_FUNC after detecting a BLAS library and rejects it on
failure (i.e. pretends that no library was found).

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_blas_f77_func.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_blas_f77_func.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_blas_f77_func.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Jaroslav Hajek @email{highegg@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
