@node ax_blas
@unnumberedsec ax_blas

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_BLAS([ACTION-IF-FOUND[, ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro looks for a library that implements the BLAS linear-algebra
interface (see http://www.netlib.org/blas/). On success, it sets the
BLAS_LIBS output variable to hold the requisite library linkages.

To link with BLAS, you should link with:

@smallexample
  $BLAS_LIBS $LIBS $FLIBS
@end smallexample

in that order. FLIBS is the output variable of the
AC_F77_LIBRARY_LDFLAGS macro (called if necessary by AX_BLAS), and is
sometimes necessary in order to link with F77 libraries. Users will also
need to use AC_F77_DUMMY_MAIN (see the autoconf manual), for the same
reason.

Many libraries are searched for, from ATLAS to CXML to ESSL. The user
may also use --with-blas=<lib> in order to use some specific BLAS
library <lib>. In order to link successfully, however, be aware that you
will probably need to use the same Fortran compiler (which can be set
via the F77 env. var.) as was used to compile the BLAS library.

ACTION-IF-FOUND is a list of shell commands to run if a BLAS library is
found, and ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND is a list of commands to run it if it is
not found. If ACTION-IF-FOUND is not specified, the default action will
define HAVE_BLAS.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_blas.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_blas.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_blas.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Steven G. Johnson @email{stevenj@@alum.mit.edu}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2019 Geoffrey M. Oxberry @email{goxberry@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
