@node ax_boost_python
@unnumberedsec ax_boost_python

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_BOOST_PYTHON
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro checks to see if the Boost.Python library is installed. It
also attempts to guess the correct library name using several attempts.
It tries to build the library name using a user supplied name or suffix
and then just the raw library.

If the library is found, HAVE_BOOST_PYTHON is defined and
BOOST_PYTHON_LIB is set to the name of the library.

This macro calls AC_SUBST(BOOST_PYTHON_LIB).

In order to ensure that the Python headers and the Boost libraries are
specified on the include path, this macro requires AX_PYTHON_DEVEL and
AX_BOOST_BASE to be called.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_boost_python.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_boost_python.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_boost_python.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Michael Tindal} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2013 Daniel M"ullner @email{daniel@@danifold.net}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
