@node ax_cc_maxopt
@unnumberedsec ax_cc_maxopt

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CC_MAXOPT
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Try to turn on "good" C optimization flags for various compilers and
architectures, for some definition of "good". (In our case, good for
FFTW and hopefully for other scientific codes. Modify as needed.)

The user can override the flags by setting the CFLAGS environment
variable. The user can also specify --enable-portable-binary in order to
disable any optimization flags that might result in a binary that only
runs on the host architecture.

Note also that the flags assume that ANSI C aliasing rules are followed
by the code (e.g. for gcc's -fstrict-aliasing), and that floating-point
computations can be re-ordered as needed.

Requires macros: AX_CHECK_COMPILE_FLAG, AX_COMPILER_VENDOR,
AX_GCC_ARCHFLAG, AX_GCC_X86_CPUID.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_cc_maxopt.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_cc_maxopt.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_cc_maxopt.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Steven G. Johnson @email{stevenj@@alum.mit.edu}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Matteo Frigo}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
