@node ax_check_library
@unnumberedsec ax_check_library

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_LIBRARY(VARIABLE-PREFIX, HEADER-FILE, LIBRARY-FILE,
                 [ACTION-IF-FOUND], [ACTION-IF-NOT_FOUND])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Provides a generic test for a given library, similar in concept to the
PKG_CHECK_MODULES macro used by pkg-config.

Most simplest libraries can be checked against simply through the
presence of a header file and a library to link to. This macro allows to
wrap around the test so that it doesn't have to be recreated each time.

Rather than define --with-$LIBRARY arguments, it uses variables in the
same way that PKG_CHECK_MODULES does. It doesn't, though, use the same
names, since you shouldn't provide a value for LIBS or CFLAGS but rather
for LDFLAGS and CPPFLAGS, to tell the linker and compiler where to find
libraries and headers respectively.

If the library is find, HAVE_PREFIX is defined, and in all cases
PREFIX_LDFLAGS and PREFIX_CPPFLAGS are substituted.

Example:

@smallexample
  AX_CHECK_LIBRARY([LIBEVENT], [event.h], [event], [],
                   [AC_MSG_ERROR([Unable to find libevent])])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_library.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_library.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_library.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2010 Diego Elio Petteno` @email{flameeyes@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
