@node ax_c_declare_block
@unnumberedsec ax_c_declare_block

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_C_DECLARE_BLOCK
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

The macro will compile a test program to see whether the compiler does
allow new variable declarations in the middle of a C statement block,
i.e. after some non-declaration line. New compilers will allow that
which makes the behave a bit more like C++ - the gcc did support it for
quite a time already.

#define DECLARE_BLOCK_NEEDED says they need to be at the beginning of of
a statement block. Additionally two defines DECLARE_BLOCK @{ and
DECLARE_END @} are being set. That makes it possible to do the following
in your source code (which this macro is really made up for):

@smallexample
 #define ___ DECLARE_BLOCK
 #define ____ DECLARE_END
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 int f() @{
  char buffer[1024];
  fgets(buffer, 1024, stdin);
  ___ int i; int ii = strlen(buffer);
  for (i=0; i < ii; i++) @{
     fputc(buffer[i], stdout);
  @}____;
 @}
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_c_declare_block.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_c_declare_block.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_c_declare_block.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
