@node ax_compute_relative_paths
@unnumberedsec ax_compute_relative_paths

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_COMPUTE_RELATIVE_PATHS(PATH_LIST)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

PATH_LIST is a space-separated list of colon-separated triplets of the
form 'FROM:TO:RESULT'. This function iterates over these triplets and
set $RESULT to the relative path from $FROM to $TO. Note that $FROM and
$TO needs to be absolute filenames for this macro to success.

For instance,

@smallexample
  first=/usr/local/bin
  second=/usr/local/share
  AX_COMPUTE_RELATIVE_PATHS([first:second:fs second:first:sf])
  # $fs is set to ../share
  # $sf is set to ../bin
@end smallexample

$FROM and $TO are both eval'ed recursively and normalized, this means
that you can call this macro with autoconf's dirnames like `prefix' or
`datadir'. For example:

@smallexample
  AX_COMPUTE_RELATIVE_PATHS([bindir:datadir:bin_to_data])
@end smallexample

AX_COMPUTE_RELATIVE_PATHS should also works with DOS filenames.

You may want to use this macro in order to make your package
relocatable. Instead of hardcoding $datadir into your programs just
encode $bin_to_data and try to determine $bindir at run-time.

This macro requires AX_NORMALIZE_PATH and AX_RECURSIVE_EVAL.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_compute_relative_paths.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_compute_relative_paths.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_compute_relative_paths.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Alexandre Duret-Lutz @email{adl@@gnu.org}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
