@node ax_cvs
@unnumberedsec ax_cvs

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CVS([ANON_CVSROOT])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Adds support cvs targets within your Makefile.

Branching and releasing relies on you using the following version
format:

@smallexample
  MAJOR.MINOR.POINT
@end smallexample

where MAJOR is the major version number, MINOR is the minor version
number and POINT is the point release number.

make update

@smallexample
  performs a cvs update
@end smallexample

make commitlog

@smallexample
  Generates a ChangeLog template with the modified, added
  and removed files and opens it up for editing. This is
  not normally used directly, but is instead called by
  commit. It is useful however if you want to document
  the work you have done, but don't want to commit just
  yet.
@end smallexample

make commit

@smallexample
  performs a cvs commit after first performing a cvs
  update and generating a commit log.
@end smallexample

make cvs-rm FILES="file1 file2 ..."

@smallexample
  removes a file or files specified by the FILES
  variable from the file system and from cvs. It will
  interactively ask you to confirm the file removal,
  unless the file does not exist on the file system.
@end smallexample

make cvs-add FILES="file1 file2 ..."

@smallexample
  adds a file or files specified by the FILES variable
  to cvs.
@end smallexample

make branch-major

@smallexample
  creates a branch based on the major version number,
  increments the major version number, sets the minor
  and point versions to zero and checks out the branch
  into a new directory.
@end smallexample

make branch-minor

@smallexample
  creates a branch based on the minor version number,
  increments the minor version, sets the point version
  to zero number and checks out the branch into a new
  directory.
@end smallexample

make release

@smallexample
  performs a cvs update, followed by a distcheck, then
  creates a release for the current version, increments
  the point release number and checks out the release
  into a new directory
@end smallexample

make quick-release

@smallexample
  same as release, but distcheck is not performed
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_cvs.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_cvs.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_cvs.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Tom Howard @email{tomhoward@@users.sf.net}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
