@node ax_create_generic_config
@unnumberedsec ax_create_generic_config

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CREATE_GENERIC_CONFIG [(PACKAGEnlibs [, VERSION])]
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Creates a generic PACKAGE-config file that has all the things that you
want, hmm, well, at least it has --cflags, --version, --libs. Ahhm, did
you see ax_path_generic in the autoconf-archive? ;-)

this macros saves you all the typing for a pkg-config.in script, you
don't even need to distribute one along. Place this macro in your
configure.ac, et voila, you got one that you want to install.

oh, btw, if the first arg looks like "mylib -lwhat' then it will go to
be added to the --libs, and mylib is extracted.

the defaults: $1 = $PACKAGE $LIBS $2 = $VERSION there is also an
AC_SUBST(GENERIC_CONFIG) that will be set to the name of the file that
we did output in this macro. Use as:

@smallexample
 install-exec-local:    install-generic-config
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 install-generic-config:
    $(mkinstalldirs) $(DESTDIR)$(bindir)
    $(INSTALL_SCRIPT) @@GENERIC_CONFIG@@ $(DESTDIR)$(bindir)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_create_generic_config.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_create_generic_config.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_create_generic_config.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
