@node ax_compile_check_sizeof
@unnumberedsec ax_compile_check_sizeof

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(TYPE [, HEADERS [, EXTRA_SIZES...]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro checks for the size of TYPE using compile checks, not run
checks. You can supply extra HEADERS to look into. the check will cycle
through 1 2 4 8 16 and any EXTRA_SIZES the user supplies. If a match is
found, it will #define SIZEOF_`TYPE' to that value. Otherwise it will
emit a configure time error indicating the size of the type could not be
determined.

The trick is that C will not allow duplicate case labels. While this is
valid C code:

@smallexample
  switch (0) case 0: case 1:;
@end smallexample

The following is not:

@smallexample
  switch (0) case 0: case 0:;
@end smallexample

Thus, the AC_COMPILE_IFELSE will fail if the currently tried size does
not match.

Here is an example skeleton configure.in script, demonstrating the
macro's usage:

@smallexample
  AC_PROG_CC
  AC_CHECK_HEADERS(stddef.h unistd.h)
  AC_TYPE_SIZE_T
  AC_CHECK_TYPE(ssize_t, int)
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  headers='#ifdef HAVE_STDDEF_H
  #include <stddef.h>
  #endif
  #ifdef HAVE_UNISTD_H
  #include <unistd.h>
  #endif
  '
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(char)
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(short)
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(int)
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(long)
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(unsigned char *)
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(void *)
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(size_t, $headers)
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(ssize_t, $headers)
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(ptrdiff_t, $headers)
  AX_COMPILE_CHECK_SIZEOF(off_t, $headers)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_compile_check_sizeof.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_compile_check_sizeof.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_compile_check_sizeof.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Kaveh Ghazi @email{ghazi@@caip.rutgers.edu}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2017 Reini Urban @email{rurban@@cpan.org}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
