@node ax_cxx_restrict_this
@unnumberedsec ax_cxx_restrict_this

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CXX_RESTRICT_THIS
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Determine whether the C++ compiler supports qualifying a member function
with a restricted "this" pointer.  Define "restrict_this" to the correct
spelling; use like this:

@smallexample
  T::fn() restrict_this @{ /* code */ @}
@end smallexample

Otherwise, define "restrict_this" to be empty.

Note: the syntax above is a GCC extension. If your C++ compiler has a
different way of applying the 'restricted' qualifier to the "this"
pointer, please consider reporting it.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_cxx_restrict_this.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_cxx_restrict_this.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_cxx_restrict_this.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2010 Riccardo Murri @email{riccardo.murri@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

Under Section 7 of GPL version 3, you are granted additional permissions
described in the Autoconf Configure Script Exception, version 3.0, as
published by the Free Software Foundation.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License and a
copy of the Autoconf Configure Script Exception along with this program;
see the files COPYINGv3 and COPYING.EXCEPTION respectively. If not, see
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
