@node ax_check_mysql
@unnumberedsec ax_check_mysql

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_MYSQL([MYSQL-PLUGIN-NEEDED],[MYSQL-REQUIRED],[MINIMUM-VERSION],[INCLUDES-REQUIRED])
AX_SOURCE_MYSQL()
AX_CHECK_MYSQL_INSTALL([ROOT-DIR],[IF-FOUND],[IF-NOT-FOUND])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Looks for a MySQL installation in typical locations, or can take in a
flag designating where a MySQL installation is found. Sets the variables
stated to various attributes of the desired MySQL installation.

In detail, AX_CHECK_MYSQL will automatically look for a MySQL
installation in the directories that a mysql source or binary install
typically install to. AX_CHECK_MYSQL will throw an error if it cannot
find one, and it is required.

AX_CHECK_MYSQL can also check for specific variables passed regarding a
location of a MySQL installation.

If a MySQL installation is found, AX_CHECK_MYSQL sets variables
regarding the version of MySQL, its architecture (32 or 64 bit), and
whether the version supports Plugins.

AX_CHECK_MYSQL_INSTALL will check a designated root directory for a
command, plugin, and include directory. If a mysql binary is not found
or not found, the IF-FOUND and IF-NOT-FOUND directive will be executed,
respectively.

AX_CHECK_MYSQL adds the following flags:

@smallexample
  --with-mysql, for the root of a desired MySQL installation
  --with-mysql-plugin, for the path to the plugin directory of the MySQL installation
  --with-mysql-include, for the path to the include directory of the MySQL installation
  --with-mysql-command, for the path to the binary directory of the MySQL installation
  --with-mysql-source, for the path to a directory containing the source of the MySQL installation
@end smallexample

AX_CHECK_MYSQL sets:

@smallexample
  MYSQL to indicate whether MySQL was found or not
  MYSQL_INCLUDES to the include directory (if one exists)
  MYSQL_PLUGINS  to the plugin directory
  MYSQL_COMMANDS  to the mysql executable directory
  MYSQL_ARCHITECTURE to whether MySQL is 32 or 64 bit (32 if 32, 64 if 64)
  MYSQL_VERSION to what the MySQL version is (5.1,5.5, etc)
  MYSQL_PLUGIN_OK to whether MySQL version supports plugins (5.1 or greater)
  MYSQL_55 to whether the version of MySQL is 5.5 or greater
  MYSQL_SOURCE  to the source directory passed by --with-mysql-source
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_mysql.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_mysql.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_mysql.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 University of Washington} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Yusuke Tsutsumi @email{tsutsumi.yusuke@@gmail.com}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Craig Stimmel @email{cstimmel@@uw.edu}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Eric Wu}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
