@node ax_c_compile_value
@unnumberedsec ax_c_compile_value

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_C_COMPILE_VALUE (COMPILE-VALUE, ALIAS, INCLUDES)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

The AX_C_COMPILE_VALUE macro determines a compile time value by
generating the object code and reading the value from the code. Static
data initializers like sizeof(int) are unavailable to preprocessor. The
macro calculates the values known to compiler's static initializer.

Assumptions: The sought value should not exceed 65535. The shell
interpreter and the sed utility are expected to exist and work similarly
across possible build platforms.

Result: The resulting configure script will generate the preprocessor
symbol definition:

@smallexample
  #define COMPILE_VALUE_<ALIAS> <NUMBER>
@end smallexample

It was important that the value was embedded into the object file in a
predefined byte order during the test. This ensured that the result was
independent from the target platform's byte order.

The existing AC_CHECK_SIZEOF macro also computes the size of the given
type without running the test program. However, the existing macro will
produce a piece of configure script that will take the time proportional
to the logarithm of the sought value.

Example of use in configure.in:

@smallexample
  AX_C_COMPILE_VALUE(sizeof(int), sizeof_int)
  AX_C_COMPILE_VALUE([sizeof(int[[543]])], sizeof_int543)
@end smallexample

As a result of running the generated configure script, the following
definition will appear in config.h:

@smallexample
  #define COMPILE_VALUE_SIZEOF_INT 4
  #define COMPILE_VALUE_SIZEOF_INT543 2172
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_c_compile_value.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_c_compile_value.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_c_compile_value.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Ilguiz Latypov}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
