@node ax_check_enable_debug
@unnumberedsec ax_check_enable_debug

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_ENABLE_DEBUG([enable by default=yes/info/profile/no], [ENABLE DEBUG VARIABLES ...], [DISABLE DEBUG VARIABLES NDEBUG ...], [IS-RELEASE])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check for the presence of an --enable-debug option to configure, with
the specified default value used when the option is not present.  Return
the value in the variable $ax_enable_debug.

Specifying 'yes' adds '-g -O0' to the compilation flags for all
languages. Specifying 'info' adds '-g' to the compilation flags.
Specifying 'profile' adds '-g -pg' to the compilation flags and '-pg' to
the linking flags. Otherwise, nothing is added.

Define the variables listed in the second argument if debug is enabled,
defaulting to no variables.  Defines the variables listed in the third
argument if debug is disabled, defaulting to NDEBUG.  All lists of
variables should be space-separated.

If debug is not enabled, ensure AC_PROG_* will not add debugging flags.
Should be invoked prior to any AC_PROG_* compiler checks.

IS-RELEASE can be used to change the default to 'no' when making a
release.  Set IS-RELEASE to 'yes' or 'no' as appropriate. By default, it
uses the value of $ax_is_release, so if you are using the AX_IS_RELEASE
macro, there is no need to pass this parameter.

@smallexample
  AX_IS_RELEASE([git-directory])
  AX_CHECK_ENABLE_DEBUG()
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_enable_debug.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_enable_debug.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_enable_debug.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Rhys Ulerich @email{rhys.ulerich@@gmail.com}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2014, 2015 Philip Withnall @email{philip@@tecnocode.co.uk}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.
