@node ax_check_gir_symbols_gjs
@unnumberedsec ax_check_gir_symbols_gjs

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_GIR_SYMBOLS_GJS(MODULE, APIVERSION, SYMBOLS)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check that each symbol from the whitespace-separated list of $SYMBOLS is
defined inside the GObject Introspection module $MODULE with API version
$APIVERSION, and is importable in GJS, GNOME's JavaScript engine
(https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/Gjs).

GObject Introspection
(https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GObjectIntrospection) is a tool for
generating bindings from C libraries to higher-level languages. The
bindings live in a GObject Introspection repository (GIR) file, which is
what this macro checks.

Note that for the purposes of GObject Introspection, the API version is
different from the release version. For example, GTK currently has API
version 3.0, but that could mean any release from the 3.0, 3.2, 3.4,...
series.

Example:

@smallexample
  AX_CHECK_GIR_SYMBOLS_GJS([Gtk], [3.0], [ListBox FlowBox
                                          Widget.get_action_group])
@end smallexample

NOTE: This macro depends on AX_PROG_GJS.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_gir_symbols_gjs.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_gir_symbols_gjs.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_gir_symbols_gjs.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2013, 2016 Endless Mobile, Inc.; contributed by Philip Chimento @email{philip@@endlessm.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
