@node ax_check_gl
@unnumberedsec ax_check_gl

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_GL([ACTION-IF-FOUND],[ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Checks for an OpenGL implementation. If a valid OpenGL implementation is
found, this macro would set C preprocessor symbol HAVE_GL to 1.

If either a valid OpenGL header or library was not found, by default the
configuration would exits on error. This behavior can be overwritten by
providing a custom "ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND" hook.

If the header, library was found, and been tested for compiling and
linking the configuration would export the required compiler flags to
"GL_CFLAGS" and "GL_LIBS". These two variables can also be overwritten
by user from the command line if they want to link against the library
they specified instead of having the configuration script to detect the
flags automatically. Note that having "GL_CFLAGS" or "GL_LIBS" set
doesn't mean it can compile or link with the flags, since it could be
overwritten by user. However the "HAVE_GL" symbol and "ACTION-IF-FOUND"
hook is always guaranteed to reflect a valid OpenGL implementation.

If user didn't specify the "ACTION-IF-FOUND" hook, the configuration
would prepend "GL_CFLAGS" and "GL_LIBS" to "CFLAGS" and "LIBS", like
many other autoconf macros do.

OpenGL is one of the libraries that has different header names on
different platforms. This macro does the header detection, and will
export the following symbol: "HAVE_GL_GL_H" for having "GL/gl.h" or
"HAVE_OPENGL_GL_H" for having "OpenGL/gl.h". To write a portable OpenGL
code, you should include OpenGL header like so:

@smallexample
  #if defined(HAVE_WINDOWS_H) && defined(_WIN32)
  # include <windows.h>
  #endif
  #ifdef HAVE_GL_GL_H
  # include <GL/gl.h>
  #elif defined(HAVE_OPENGL_GL_H)
  # include <OpenGL/gl.h>
  #else
  # error no gl.h
  #endif
@end smallexample

On the OSX platform, there's two possible OpenGL implementation. One is
the OpenGL that ships with OSX, the other comes with X11/XQuartz
(http://www.xquartz.org). To use the xquartz variant, user can use the
option --with-xquartz-gl[=path to xquartz root]. By default the
configuration will check "/opt/X11", which is the default X11 install
location on OSX.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_gl.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_gl.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_gl.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Braden McDaniel @email{braden@@endoframe.com}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2012 Bastien Roucaries @email{roucaries.bastien+autoconf@@gmail.com}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2016 Felix Chern @email{idryman@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
