@node ax_check_compile_flag
@unnumberedsec ax_check_compile_flag

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_COMPILE_FLAG(FLAG, [ACTION-SUCCESS], [ACTION-FAILURE], [EXTRA-FLAGS], [INPUT])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check whether the given FLAG works with the current language's compiler
or gives an error.  (Warnings, however, are ignored)

ACTION-SUCCESS/ACTION-FAILURE are shell commands to execute on
success/failure.

If EXTRA-FLAGS is defined, it is added to the current language's default
flags (e.g. CFLAGS) when the check is done.  The check is thus made with
the flags: "CFLAGS EXTRA-FLAGS FLAG".  This can for example be used to
force the compiler to issue an error when a bad flag is given.

INPUT gives an alternative input source to AC_COMPILE_IFELSE.

NOTE: Implementation based on AX_CFLAGS_GCC_OPTION. Please keep this
macro in sync with AX_CHECK_@{PREPROC,LINK@}_FLAG.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_compile_flag.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_compile_flag.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_compile_flag.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Maarten Bosmans @email{mkbosmans@@gmail.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
