@node ax_check_vscript
@unnumberedsec ax_check_vscript

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_VSCRIPT
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check whether the linker supports version scripts.  Version scripts are
used when building shared libraries to bind symbols to version nodes
(helping to detect incompatibilities) or to limit the visibility of
non-public symbols.

Output:

If version scripts are supported, VSCRIPT_LDFLAGS will contain the
appropriate flag to pass to the linker.  On GNU systems this would
typically be "-Wl,--version-script", and on Solaris it would typically
be "-Wl,-M".

Two Automake conditionals are also set:

@smallexample
 HAVE_VSCRIPT is true if the linker supports version scripts with
 entries that use simple wildcards, like "local: *".
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 HAVE_VSCRIPT_COMPLEX is true if the linker supports version scripts with
 pattern matching wildcards, like "global: Java_*".
@end smallexample

On systems that do not support symbol versioning, such as Mac OS X, both
conditionals will be false.  They will also be false if the user passes
"--disable-symvers" on the configure command line.

Example:

@smallexample
 configure.ac:
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  AX_CHECK_VSCRIPT
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 Makefile.am:
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  if HAVE_VSCRIPT
  libfoo_la_LDFLAGS += $(VSCRIPT_LDFLAGS),@@srcdir@@/libfoo.map
  endif
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  if HAVE_VSCRIPT_COMPLEX
  libbar_la_LDFLAGS += $(VSCRIPT_LDFLAGS),@@srcdir@@/libbar.map
  endif
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_vscript.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_vscript.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_vscript.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2014 Kevin Cernekee @email{cernekee@@gmail.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
