@node ax_create_stdint_h
@unnumberedsec ax_create_stdint_h

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CREATE_STDINT_H [( HEADER-TO-GENERATE [, HEDERS-TO-CHECK])]
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

the "ISO C9X: 7.18 Integer types <stdint.h>" section requires the
existence of an include file <stdint.h> that defines a set of typedefs,
especially uint8_t,int32_t,uintptr_t. Many older installations will not
provide this file, but some will have the very same definitions in
<inttypes.h>. In other environments we can use the inet-types in
<sys/types.h> which would define the typedefs int8_t and u_int8_t
respectively.

This macros will create a local "_stdint.h" or the headerfile given as
an argument. In many cases that file will just "#include <stdint.h>" or
"#include <inttypes.h>", while in other environments it will provide the
set of basic 'stdint's definitions/typedefs:

@smallexample
  int8_t,uint8_t,int16_t,uint16_t,int32_t,uint32_t,intptr_t,uintptr_t
  int_least32_t.. int_fast32_t.. intmax_t
@end smallexample

which may or may not rely on the definitions of other files, or using
the AC_CHECK_SIZEOF macro to determine the actual sizeof each type.

if your header files require the stdint-types you will want to create an
installable file mylib-int.h that all your other installable header may
include. So if you have a library package named "mylib", just use

@smallexample
  AX_CREATE_STDINT_H(mylib-int.h)
@end smallexample

in configure.ac and go to install that very header file in Makefile.am
along with the other headers (mylib.h) - and the mylib-specific headers
can simply use "#include <mylib-int.h>" to obtain the stdint-types.

Remember, if the system already had a valid <stdint.h>, the generated
file will include it directly. No need for fuzzy HAVE_STDINT_H things...
(oops, GCC 4.2.x has deliberately disabled its stdint.h for non-c99
compilation and the c99-mode is not the default. Therefore this macro
will not use the compiler's stdint.h - please complain to the GCC
developers).

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_create_stdint_h.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_create_stdint_h.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_create_stdint_h.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
