@node ax_check_gd
@unnumberedsec ax_check_gd

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_GD
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check for the gd library. (See http://www.boutell.com/gd/) If gd is
found, the output variables GD_CFLAGS, GD_LDFLAGS and GD_LIBS will
contain the compiler flags, linker flags and libraries necessary to use
gd; otherwise, those variables will be empty. In addition, the symbol
HAVE_GD is defined if the library is found, and the symbols HAVE_GD_GIF,
HAVE_GD_JPEG and HAVE_GD_PNG are defined if the library supports
creating images in gif, jpeg and png formats, respectively.

The user may use --with-gd=no or --without-gd to skip checking for the
library. (The default is --with-gd=yes.) If the library is installed in
an unusual location, --with-gd=DIR will cause the macro to look for
gdlib-config in DIR/bin or, failing that, for the headers and libraries
in DIR/include and DIR/lib.

Feedback welcome!

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_gd.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_gd.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_gd.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Nick Markham @email{markhn@@rpi.edu}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
