@node ax_create_pkgconfig_info
@unnumberedsec ax_create_pkgconfig_info

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CREATE_PKGCONFIG_INFO [(outputfile, [requires [,libs [,summary [,cflags [, ldflags]]]]])]
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Defaults:

@smallexample
  $1 = $PACKAGE_NAME.pc
  $2 = (empty)
  $3 = $PACKAGE_LIBS $LIBS (as set at that point in configure.ac)
  $4 = $PACKAGE_SUMMARY (or $1 Library)
  $5 = $PACKAGE_CFLAGS (as set at the point in configure.ac)
  $6 = $PACKAGE_LDFLAGS (as set at the point in configure.ac)
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  PACKAGE_NAME defaults to $PACKAGE if not set.
  PACKAGE_LIBS defaults to -l$PACKAGE_NAME if not set.
@end smallexample

The resulting file is called $PACKAGE.pc.in / $PACKAGE.pc

You will find this macro most useful in conjunction with
ax_spec_defaults that can read good initializers from the .spec file. In
consequence, most of the generatable installable stuff can be made from
information being updated in a single place for the whole project.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_create_pkgconfig_info.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_create_pkgconfig_info.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_create_pkgconfig_info.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Sven Verdoolaege @email{skimo@@kotnet.org}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
