@node ax_c_referenceable_passed_va_list
@unnumberedsec ax_c_referenceable_passed_va_list

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_C_REFERENCEABLE_PASSED_VA_LIST
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Checks whether f(va_list va)@{ &va; @} works as expected.

This macro uses compile-time detection and so is cross-compile ready.

C99 mentioned passing a pointer to va_list to other functions (footnote
212 of "7.15 Variable arguments <stdarg.h>"). However, f(va_list va) @{
&va; @} produces broken pointer on some environments such as gcc on
x86_64, although @{ va_list va; &va; @} works as expected. See the
detection code of this file and any of pages
https://www.gnu.org/software/autoconf/manual/html_node/Function-Portability.html,
http://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=14557, and
http://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=20951 for further
information.

Although C99 does not define the operations f(va_list va) @{ &va; @} and
&va itself as standard (footnotes are declared as "normative part,
information only"), certain situations need it. This macro provides a
type detection about va_list implementation to deal with the operation.

Following workaround will probably work on such environments although it
does not ensure to be safe and portable. At least it is working on
x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu:

@smallexample
 f(va_list va)
 @{
   va_list *vap;
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 #if HAVE_REFERENCEABLE_PASSED_VA_LIST
     vap = &va;
 #else
     vap = (va_list *)va;
 #endif
 @}
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_c_referenceable_passed_va_list.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_c_referenceable_passed_va_list.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_c_referenceable_passed_va_list.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 YAMAMOTO Kengo @email{yamaken@@bp.iij4u.or.jp}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
