@node ax_compute_standard_relative_paths
@unnumberedsec ax_compute_standard_relative_paths

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_COMPUTE_STANDARD_RELATIVE_PATHS
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Here is the standard hierarchy of paths, as defined by the GNU Coding
Standards:

@smallexample
  prefix
     exec_prefix
        bindir
        libdir
        libexecdir
        sbindir
     datarootdir
        docdir
        infodir
        htmldir
        dvidir
        psdir
        pdfdir
        localedir
        datadir (only for autoconf >= 2.59c)
        infodir (only for autoconf >= 2.59c)
        mandir (only for autoconf >= 2.59c)
        lispdir (only for autoconf >= 2.59c)
     datadir (only for autoconf < 2.59c)
     infodir (only for autoconf < 2.59c)
     mandir (only for autoconf < 2.59c)
     lispdir (only for autoconf < 2.59c)
     sysconfdir
     sharedstatedir
     localstatedir
        runstatedir (only for autoconf >= 2.70)
     includedir
     oldincludedir
@end smallexample

This macro will setup a set of variables of the form
'xxx_forward_relative_path' and 'xxx_backward_relative_path' where xxx
is one of the above directories. The latter variable is set to the
relative path to go from xxx to its parent directory, while the former
hold the other way.

For instance `bindir_relative_path' will contains the value to add to
$exec_prefix to reach the $bindir directory (usually 'bin'), and
`bindir_backward_relative_path' the value to append to $bindir to reach
the $exec_prefix directory (usually '..').

This macro requires AX_COMPUTE_RELATIVE_PATHS which itself requires
AX_NORMALIZE_PATH.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_compute_standard_relative_paths.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_compute_standard_relative_paths.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_compute_standard_relative_paths.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Alexandre Duret-Lutz @email{adl@@gnu.org}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2015 Bastien Roucaries @email{roucaries.bastien+autoconf@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
