@node ax_check_rqrd_class
@unnumberedsec ax_check_rqrd_class

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_RQRD_CLASS
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

AX_CHECK_RQRD_CLASS tests the existence of a given Java class, either in
a jar or in a '.class' file and fails if it doesn't exist. Its success
or failure can depend on a proper setting of the CLASSPATH env.
variable.

Note: This is part of the set of autoconf M4 macros for Java programs.
It is VERY IMPORTANT that you download the whole set, some macros depend
on other. Unfortunately, the autoconf archive does not support the
concept of set of macros, so I had to break it for submission. The
general documentation, as well as the sample configure.in, is included
in the AX_PROG_JAVA macro.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_rqrd_class.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_rqrd_class.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_rqrd_class.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Stephane Bortzmeyer @email{bortzmeyer@@pasteur.fr}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
