@node ax_check_postgres_db
@unnumberedsec ax_check_postgres_db

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CHECK_POSTGRES_DB([ACTION-IF-FOUND],[ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro tries to find the headers and libraries for the PostgreSQL
database to build client applications.

If includes are found, the variable PQINCPATH will be set, and
have_pqinc will be 'yes'. If libraries are found, the variable PQLIBPATH
will be set, and have_pqlib will be 'yes'. If both PQINCPATH and
PQLIBPATH are found, HAVE_LIBPQ will be set to 'yes' (and AC_DEFINEd),
and -lpq will be added to the beginning of LIBS. If their respective
conditions are not met, have_pqinc, have_pqlib, HAVE_LIBPQ, will be
'no'.

This macro does fails if either the headers or the library are not
found, unless ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND is not empty. When both are found,
ACTION-IF-FOUND, if defined, is executed after the variables have been
defined. If --with-pgsql=no (or equivalents) is given, nothing happens.

An automake conditional can be subsequently defined as

@smallexample
  AM_CONDITIONAL([HAVE_LIBPQ], [test x$HAVE_LIBPQ = x$yes])
@end smallexample

in configure.ac.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_check_postgres_db.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_check_postgres_db.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_check_postgres_db.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Christian Toepp @email{c.toepp@@gmail.com}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2012 Olivier Mehani @email{shtrom-ax@@ssji.net}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
