@node ax_create_target_h
@unnumberedsec ax_create_target_h

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_CREATE_TARGET_H [(HEADER-FILE [,PREFIX)]
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Create the header-file and let it contain '#defines' for the target
platform. This macro is used for libraries that have platform-specific
quirks. Instead of inventing a target-specific target.h.in files, just
let it create a header file from the definitions of AC_CANONICAL_SYSTEM
and put only ifdef's in the installed header-files.

@smallexample
 if the HEADER-FILE is absent, [target.h] is used.
 if the PREFIX is absent, [TARGET] is used.
 the prefix can be the packagename. (y:a-z-:A-Z_:)
@end smallexample

The defines look like...

@smallexample
 #ifndef TARGET_CPU_M68K
 #define TARGET_CPU_M68K "m68k"
 #endif
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 #ifndef TARGET_OS_LINUX
 #define TARGET_OS_LINUX "linux-gnu"
 #endif
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 #ifndef TARGET_OS_TYPE                     /* the string itself */
 #define TARGET_OS_TYPE "linux-gnu"
 #endif
@end smallexample

Detail: in the case of hppa1.1, the three idents "hppa1_1" "hppa1" and
"hppa" are derived, for an m68k it just two, "m68k" and "m".

The CREATE_TARGET_H__ variant is almost the same function, but
everything is lowercased instead of uppercased, and there is a "__" in
front of each prefix, so it looks like...

@smallexample
 #ifndef __target_os_linux
 #define __target_os_linux "linux-gnulibc2"
 #endif
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 #ifndef __target_os__                     /* the string itself */
 #define __target_os__ "linux-gnulibc2"
 #endif
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 #ifndef __target_cpu_i586
 #define __target_cpu_i586 "i586"
 #endif
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 #ifndef __target_arch_i386
 #define __target_arch_i386 "i386"
 #endif
@end smallexample

@smallexample
 #ifndef __target_arch__                   /* cpu family arch */
 #define __target_arch__ "i386"
 #endif
@end smallexample

Other differences: the default string-define is "__" instead of "_TYPE".

Personally, I prefer the second variant (which had been the first in the
devprocess of this file but I assume people will often fallback to the
primary variant presented herein).

NOTE: CREATE_TARGET_H does also fill HOST_OS-defines Functionality has
been split over functions called CREATE_TARGET_H_UPPER,
CREATE_TARGET_H_LOWER, CREATE_TARGET_HOST_UPPER, and
CREATE_TARGET_HOST_LOWER.

@smallexample
 CREATE_TARGET_H  uses CREATE_TARGET_H_UPPER CREATE_TARGET_HOST_UPPER
 CREATE_TARGET_H_ uses CREATE_TARGET_H_LOWER CREATE_TARGET_HOST_LOWER
@end smallexample

There is now a CREATE_PREFIX_TARGET_H in this file as a shorthand for
PREFIX_CONFIG_H from a target.h file, however w/o the target.h ever
created (the prefix is a bit different, since we add an extra -target-
and -host-).

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_create_target_h.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_create_target_h.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_create_target_h.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
