@node ax_ext
@unnumberedsec ax_ext

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_EXT
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Find supported SIMD extensions by requesting cpuid. When a SIMD
extension is found, the -m"simdextensionname" is added to SIMD_FLAGS if
compiler supports it. For example, if "sse2" is available then "-msse2"
is added to SIMD_FLAGS.

Find other supported CPU extensions by requesting cpuid. When a
processor extension is found, the -m"extensionname" is added to
CPUEXT_FLAGS if compiler supports it. For example, if "bmi2" is
available then "-mbmi2" is added to CPUEXT_FLAGS.

This macro calls:

@smallexample
  AC_SUBST(SIMD_FLAGS)
  AC_SUBST(CPUEXT_FLAGS)
@end smallexample

And defines:

@smallexample
  HAVE_RDRND / HAVE_BMI1 / HAVE_BMI2 / HAVE_ADX / HAVE_MPX
  HAVE_PREFETCHWT1 / HAVE_ABM / HAVE_MMX / HAVE_SSE / HAVE_SSE2
  HAVE_SSE3 / HAVE_SSSE3 / HAVE_SSE4_1 / HAVE_SSE4_2 / HAVE_SSE4a
  HAVE_SHA / HAVE_AES / HAVE_AVX / HAVE_FMA3 / HAVE_FMA4 / HAVE_XOP
  HAVE_AVX2 / HAVE_AVX512_F / HAVE_AVX512_CD / HAVE_AVX512_PF
  HAVE_AVX512_ER / HAVE_AVX512_VL / HAVE_AVX512_BW / HAVE_AVX512_DQ
  HAVE_AVX512_IFMA / HAVE_AVX512_VBMI / HAVE_ALTIVEC / HAVE_VSX
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_ext.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_ext.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_ext.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2007 Christophe Tournayre @email{turn3r@@users.sourceforge.net}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2013,2015 Michael Petch @email{mpetch@@capp-sysware.com}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2017 Rafael de Lucena Valle @email{rafaeldelucena@@gmail.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
