@node ax_enable_builddir
@unnumberedsec ax_enable_builddir

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_ENABLE_BUILDDIR [(dirstring-or-command [,Makefile.mk [,-all]])]
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

If the current configure was run within the srcdir then we move all
configure-files into a subdir and let the configure steps continue
there. We provide an option --disable-builddir to suppress the move into
a separate builddir.

Defaults:

@smallexample
  $1 = $host (overridden with $HOST)
  $2 = Makefile.mk
  $3 = -all
@end smallexample

This macro must be called before AM_INIT_AUTOMAKE. It creates a default
toplevel srcdir Makefile from the information found in the created
toplevel builddir Makefile. It just copies the variables and
rule-targets, each extended with a default rule-execution that recurses
into the build directory of the current "HOST". You can override the
auto-detection through `config.guess` and build-time of course, as in

@smallexample
  make HOST=i386-mingw-cross
@end smallexample

which can of course set at configure time as well using

@smallexample
  configure --host=i386-mingw-cross
@end smallexample

After the default has been created, additional rules can be appended
that will not just recurse into the subdirectories and only ever exist
in the srcdir toplevel makefile - these parts are read from the $2 =
Makefile.mk file

The automatic rules are usually scanning the toplevel Makefile for lines
like '#### $host |$builddir' to recognize the place where to recurse
into. Usually, the last one is the only one used. However, almost all
targets have an additional "*-all" rule which makes the script to
recurse into _all_ variants of the current HOST (!!) setting. The "-all"
suffix can be overridden for the macro as well.

a special rule is only given for things like "dist" that will copy the
tarball from the builddir to the sourcedir (or $(PUB)) for reason of
convenience.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_enable_builddir.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_enable_builddir.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_enable_builddir.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Alan Jenkins @email{alan-jenkins@@tuffmail.co.uk}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
