@node ax_f77_cmain_fflags
@unnumberedsec ax_f77_cmain_fflags

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_F77_CMAIN_FFLAGS([ACTION-IF-SUCCEED], [ACTION-IF-FAIL])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro figures out if extra Fortran compiler flags are required in
order to use the Fortran linker to link programs where the main()
function is defined via C (or other language). On some systems, notably
the Alpha with Compaq compilers, the Fortran libraries have their own
main() function which must be disabled.

Runs ACTION-IF-SUCCEED if successful, and ACTION-IF-FAIL if not. Defines
the output variable F77_CMAIN_FFLAGS to any discovered flags. (If
ACTION-IF-FAIL is not specified, defaults to halting with an error.)

This macro is especially useful in conjunction with automake, since by
default automake uses $F77 to link programs mixing C and Fortran,
leading to a link error on some systems. In this case, you should set
the FFLAGS for that program to include F77_CMAIN_FFLAGS.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_f77_cmain_fflags.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_f77_cmain_fflags.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_f77_cmain_fflags.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Steven G. Johnson @email{stevenj@@alum.mit.edu}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
