@node ax_f90_header
@unnumberedsec ax_f90_header

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_F90_HEADER(HEADER, HEADER-REGEXP, FUNCTION-BODY [, SEARCH-PATH [, ACTION-IF-FOUND [, ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND]]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Set up the compiler flags to use a given fortran 90 header. HEADER is
the name of the header. HEADER-REGEXP is a regular expression (used by
find) matched by the filename of the header. FUNCTION-BODY is the body
of a function (including the 'use' statement and the call to a function
defined by the module) SEARCH-PATH is a colon-separated list of
directories that will be recursively searched for header files. If
empty, the search path will be composed of $prefix, $ac_default_prefix,
and all directories exactly one level *above* the directories in
$LD_LIBRARY_PATH (the rationale is that when libraries are put in
/some/path/lib, the headers are often put in a directory like
/some/path/include). An output variable named F90_HEADER_xxx will be set
up with the proper flag for substitution in Makefiles (xxx is built from
the first argument, with autoconf traditional escapes).

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_f90_header.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_f90_header.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_f90_header.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Luc Maisonobe @email{luc@@spaceroots.org}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
