@node ax_func_which_getservbyname_r
@unnumberedsec ax_func_which_getservbyname_r

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_FUNC_WHICH_GETSERVBYNAME_R
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Provides a test to determine the correct way to call getservbyname_r:

@smallexample
 - defines HAVE_FUNC_GETSERVBYNAME_R_6 if it needs 6 arguments (e.g linux)
 - defines HAVE_FUNC_GETSERVBYNAME_R_5 if it needs 5 arguments (e.g. solaris)
 - defines HAVE_FUNC_GETSERVBYNAME_R_4 if it needs 4 arguments (e.g. osf/1)
@end smallexample

An example use can be found at
http://raf.org/autoconf/net_getservbyname.c

Based on Caolan McNamara's gethostbyname_r macro. Based on David
Arnold's autoconf suggestion in the threads faq.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_func_which_getservbyname_r.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_func_which_getservbyname_r.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_func_which_getservbyname_r.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 raf @email{raf@@raf.org}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
