@node ax_gcc_archflag
@unnumberedsec ax_gcc_archflag

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_GCC_ARCHFLAG([PORTABLE?], [ACTION-SUCCESS], [ACTION-FAILURE])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro tries to guess the "native" arch corresponding to the target
architecture for use with gcc's -march=arch or -mtune=arch flags. If
found, the cache variable $ax_cv_gcc_archflag is set to this flag and
ACTION-SUCCESS is executed; otherwise $ax_cv_gcc_archflag is set to
"unknown" and ACTION-FAILURE is executed. The default ACTION-SUCCESS is
to add $ax_cv_gcc_archflag to the end of $CFLAGS.

PORTABLE? should be either [yes] (default) or [no]. In the former case,
the flag is set to -mtune (or equivalent) so that the architecture is
only used for tuning, but the instruction set used is still portable. In
the latter case, the flag is set to -march (or equivalent) so that
architecture-specific instructions are enabled.

The user can specify --with-gcc-arch=<arch> in order to override the
macro's choice of architecture, or --without-gcc-arch to disable this.

When cross-compiling, or if $CC is not gcc, then ACTION-FAILURE is
called unless the user specified --with-gcc-arch manually.

Requires macros: AX_CHECK_COMPILE_FLAG, AX_GCC_X86_CPUID

(The main emphasis here is on recent CPUs, on the principle that doing
high-performance computing on old hardware is uncommon.)

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_gcc_archflag.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_gcc_archflag.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_gcc_archflag.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Steven G. Johnson @email{stevenj@@alum.mit.edu}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Matteo Frigo} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2014 Tsukasa Oi} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2017-2018 Alexey Kopytov}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
