@node ax_have_qt
@unnumberedsec ax_have_qt

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_HAVE_QT
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Searches $PATH and queries qmake for Qt include files, libraries and Qt
binary utilities. The macro only supports Qt5 or later.

The following shell variable is set to either "yes" or "no":

@smallexample
  have_qt
@end smallexample

Additionally, the following variables are exported:

@smallexample
  QT_CXXFLAGS
  QT_LIBS
  QT_MOC
  QT_UIC
  QT_RCC
  QT_LRELEASE
  QT_LUPDATE
  QT_DIR
@end smallexample

which respectively contain an "-I" flag pointing to the Qt include
directory, link flags necessary to link with Qt and X, the full path to
the meta object compiler and the user interface compiler both, and
finally the variable QTDIR as Qt likes to see it defined.

Example lines for Makefile.in:

@smallexample
  CXXFLAGS = @@QT_CXXFLAGS@@
  MOC      = @@QT_MOC@@
@end smallexample

After the variables have been set, a trial compile and link is performed
to check the correct functioning of the meta object compiler. This test
may fail when the different detected elements stem from different
releases of the Qt framework. In that case, an error message is emitted
and configure stops.

No common variables such as $LIBS or $CFLAGS are polluted.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_have_qt.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_have_qt.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_have_qt.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Bastiaan Veelo @email{Bastiaan@@Veelo.net}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2014 Alex Henrie @email{alexhenrie24@@gmail.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
