@node ax_jni_include_dir
@unnumberedsec ax_jni_include_dir

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_JNI_INCLUDE_DIR
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

AX_JNI_INCLUDE_DIR finds include directories needed for compiling
programs using the JNI interface.

JNI include directories are usually in the Java distribution. This is
deduced from the value of $JAVA_HOME, $JAVAC, or the path to "javac", in
that order. When this macro completes, a list of directories is left in
the variable JNI_INCLUDE_DIRS.

Example usage follows:

@smallexample
  AX_JNI_INCLUDE_DIR
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  for JNI_INCLUDE_DIR in $JNI_INCLUDE_DIRS
  do
          CPPFLAGS="$CPPFLAGS -I$JNI_INCLUDE_DIR"
  done
@end smallexample

If you want to force a specific compiler:

- at the configure.in level, set JAVAC=yourcompiler before calling
AX_JNI_INCLUDE_DIR

- at the configure level, setenv JAVAC

This macro depends on AC_CANONICAL_HOST which requires that config.guess
and config.sub be distributed along with the source code.  See autoconf
manual for details.

Note: This macro can work with the autoconf M4 macros for Java programs.
This particular macro is not part of the original set of macros.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_jni_include_dir.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_jni_include_dir.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_jni_include_dir.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Don Anderson @email{dda@@sleepycat.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
