@node ax_lib_netcdf4
@unnumberedsec ax_lib_netcdf4

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_LIB_NETCDF4([serial/parallel])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro provides tests of the availability of the NetCDF v4 library.

The optional macro argument should be either 'serial' or 'parallel'. The
macro will call nc-config to check the output of the '--has-pnetcdf'
option and error out if the requested parallel isn't supported.

If the optional argument is omitted, no check is made to see if NetCDF
has parallel support.

The macro adds a --with-netcdf4 option accepting one of three values:

@smallexample
  no   - do not check for the NetCDF4 library.
  yes  - do check for NetCDF4 library in standard locations.
  path - installation prefix for NetCDF version 4.
@end smallexample

If NetCDF4 is successfully found, this macro calls

@smallexample
  AC_SUBST(NETCDF4_VERSION)
  AC_SUBST(NETCDF4_CC)
  AC_SUBST(NETCDF4_CFLAGS)
  AC_SUBST(NETCDF4_CPPFLAGS)
  AC_SUBST(NETCDF4_LDFLAGS)
  AC_SUBST(NETCDF4_LIBS)
  AC_SUBST(NETCDF4_FC)
  AC_SUBST(NETCDF4_FFLAGS)
  AC_SUBST(NETCDF4_FLIBS)
  AC_DEFINE(HAVE_NETCDF4)
@end smallexample

It also sets

@smallexample
  with_netcdf4="yes"
  with_netcdf4_fortran="yes"    (if NetCDF has Fortran support)
  with_netcdf4_parallel="yes"   (if NetCDF has MPI support)
@end smallexample

If NetCDF4 is disabled or not found, this macros sets

@smallexample
  with_netcdf4="no"
  with_netcdf4_fortran="no"
@end smallexample

Note it does not set with_netcdf4_parallel in this case.

Your configuration script can test $with_netcdf4 to take any further
actions. NETCDF4_@{C,CPP,LD@}FLAGS may be used when building with C or
C++. NETCDF4_F@{FLAGS,LIBS@} and NETCDF4_LDFLAGS should be used when
building Fortran applications.

To use the macro, one would code one of the following in "configure.ac"
before AC_OUTPUT:

@smallexample
  1) dnl Check for NetCDF4 support
     AX_LIB_NETCDF4()
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  2) dnl Check for serial NetCDF4 support
     AX_LIB_NETCDF4([serial])
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  3) dnl Check for parallel NetCDF4 support
     AX_LIB_NETCDF4([parallel])
@end smallexample

One could test $with_netcdf4 for the outcome or display it as follows

@smallexample
  echo "NetCDF v4 support:  $with_netcdf4"
@end smallexample

One could also for example, override the default CC in "configure.ac" to
enforce compilation with the compiler that NetCDF v4 was built with:

@smallexample
  AX_LIB_NETCDF4([parallel])
  if test "$with_netcdf4" = "yes"; then
          CC="$NETCDF4_CC"
  else
          AC_MSG_ERROR([Unable to find NetCDF4, we need parallel NetCDF4.])
  fi
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_lib_netcdf4.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_lib_netcdf4.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_lib_netcdf4.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2016 Timothy Brown @email{tbrown@@freeshell.org}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
