@node ax_lapack
@unnumberedsec ax_lapack

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_LAPACK([ACTION-IF-FOUND[, ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro looks for a library that implements the LAPACK linear-algebra
interface (see http://www.netlib.org/lapack/). On success, it sets the
LAPACK_LIBS output variable to hold the requisite library linkages.

To link with LAPACK, you should link with:

@smallexample
  $LAPACK_LIBS $BLAS_LIBS $LIBS $FLIBS
@end smallexample

in that order. BLAS_LIBS is the output variable of the AX_BLAS macro,
called automatically. FLIBS is the output variable of the
AC_F77_LIBRARY_LDFLAGS macro (called if necessary by AX_BLAS), and is
sometimes necessary in order to link with F77 libraries. Users will also
need to use AC_F77_DUMMY_MAIN (see the autoconf manual), for the same
reason.

The user may also use --with-lapack=<lib> in order to use some specific
LAPACK library <lib>. In order to link successfully, however, be aware
that you will probably need to use the same Fortran compiler (which can
be set via the F77 env. var.) as was used to compile the LAPACK and BLAS
libraries.

ACTION-IF-FOUND is a list of shell commands to run if a LAPACK library
is found, and ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND is a list of commands to run it if it
is not found. If ACTION-IF-FOUND is not specified, the default action
will define HAVE_LAPACK.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_lapack.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_lapack.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_lapack.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Steven G. Johnson @email{stevenj@@alum.mit.edu}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2019 Geoffrey M. Oxberry @email{goxberry@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
