@node ax_lib_metis
@unnumberedsec ax_lib_metis

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_LIB_METIS([ACTION-IF-FOUND], [ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro searches for the METIS library in the user specified
location. The user may specify the location either by defining the
environment variable METIS or by using the --with-metis option to
configure. If the environment variable is defined it has precedent over
everything else. If no location was specified then it searches in
/usr/lib and /usr/local/lib for the library and in /usr/include and
/usr/local/include for the header files. Upon successful completion the
variables METIS_LIB and METIS_INCLUDE are set.

ACTION-IF-FOUND is a list of shell commands to run if a METIS library is
found, and ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND is a list of commands to run it if it is
not found. If ACTION-IF-FOUND is not specified, the default action will
define HAVE_METIS. If ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND is not specified then an error
will be generated halting configure.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_lib_metis.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_lib_metis.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_lib_metis.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Ben Bergen @email{ben@@cs.fau.de}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
