@node ax_mpi
@unnumberedsec ax_mpi

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_MPI([ACTION-IF-FOUND[, ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro tries to find out how to compile programs that use MPI
(Message Passing Interface), a standard API for parallel process
communication (see http://www-unix.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/)

On success, it sets the MPICC, MPICXX, MPIF77, or MPIFC output variable
to the name of the MPI compiler, depending upon the current language.
(This may just be $CC/$CXX/$F77/$FC, but is more often something like
mpicc/mpiCC/mpif77/mpif90.) It also sets MPILIBS to any libraries that
are needed for linking MPI (e.g. -lmpi or -lfmpi, if a special
MPICC/MPICXX/MPIF77/MPIFC was not found).

Note that this macro should be used only if you just have a few source
files that need to be compiled using MPI. In particular, you should
neither overwrite CC/CXX/F77/FC with the values of
MPICC/MPICXX/MPIF77/MPIFC, nor assume that you can use the same flags
etc. as the standard compilers. If you want to compile a whole program
using the MPI compiler commands, use one of the macros
AX_PROG_@{CC,CXX,FC@}_MPI.

ACTION-IF-FOUND is a list of shell commands to run if an MPI library is
found, and ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND is a list of commands to run if it is not
found. If ACTION-IF-FOUND is not specified, the default action will
define HAVE_MPI.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_mpi.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_mpi.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_mpi.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Steven G. Johnson @email{stevenj@@alum.mit.edu}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Julian C. Cummings @email{cummings@@cacr.caltech.edu}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
