@node ax_open62541_check_h
@unnumberedsec ax_open62541_check_h

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_OPEN62541_CHECK_H([HEADERS = `...see_below...'], [ACTION-IF-FOUND],
                     [ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Searches for the header file(s) of the open62541 library [1].

The open62541 library is a cmake-based project, that provides its header
files in one of two layouts:

@smallexample
  1) As individual files, e.g. ua_config.h, ua_server.h, ua_types.h, ...
  2) As a single amalgamation file open62541.h
@end smallexample

The second case is enabled when configuring open62541 with the options
"-D UA_ENABLE_AMALGAMATION=true to" cmake, which seems to be preferred.
Code using the library can distinguish which layout is used by checking
for the macro "UA_NO_AMALGAMATION": if it is defined, the first layout
is used.

The AX_OPEN62541_CHECK_H macro checks first for the amalgamation and, if
that is not found, for the individual headers. It defines
"UA_NO_AMALGAMATION" if necessary.

The individual headers to check for if no amalgamation is found can be
provided as a space-separated list in the first argument. If that is
empty, it defaults to all files known to be contained in the
amalgamation as of v0.2.0 of the library:

@smallexample
  * ms_stdint.h
  * ua_client.h
  * ua_client_highlevel.h
  * ua_config.h
  * ua_config_standard.h
  * ua_connection.h
  * ua_constants.h
  * ua_job.h
  * ua_log.h
  * ua_log_stdout.h
  * ua_network_tcp.h
  * ua_nodeids.h
  * ua_server.h
  * ua_server_external_ns.h
  * ua_types.h
  * ua_types_generated.h
  * ua_types_generated_handling.h
@end smallexample

If the with_open62541 shell variable is set to "no" (e.g. from running
the AX_OPEN62541_PATH macro and the user giving configure the option
"--without-open62541"), then expands ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND without any
checks.

[1]: <http://open62541.org/>

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_open62541_check_h.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_open62541_check_h.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_open62541_check_h.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2016,2017 Olaf Mandel @email{olaf@@mandel.name}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
