@node ax_open62541_check_lib
@unnumberedsec ax_open62541_check_lib

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_OPEN62541_CHECK_LIB([STATIC-FIRST = `no'], [ACTION-IF-FOUND],
                       [ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Searches for the library file of the open62541 library [1].

The open62541 library is a cmake-based project, that supplies both a
shared and a static library (with different names). The
AX_OPEN62541_CHECK_LIB macro can search for both and adds the first one
found to the LIBS Makefile variable. The search can be in either order
(shared first or static first), which is selectable on macro invocation
with the STATIC-FIRST parameter. The user can change this default by
invoking configure with either the --with-open62541-shared or
--with-open62541-static option (the named one is checked first).

Either shared or static library can be excluded from checking completely
with the options --without-open62541-shared and
--without-open62541-static.

If the with_open62541 shell variable is set to "no" (e.g. from running
the AX_OPEN62541_PATH macro and the user giving configure the option
"--without-open62541"), then expands ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND without any
checks. The same is true if both --without-open62541-shared and
--without-open62541-static are given.

[1]: <http://open62541.org/>

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_open62541_check_lib.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_open62541_check_lib.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_open62541_check_lib.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2016 Olaf Mandel @email{olaf@@mandel.name}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
