@node ax_open62541_path
@unnumberedsec ax_open62541_path

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_OPEN62541_PATH()
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Sets pre-processor and linker search paths for the open62541 library
[1].

The open62541 library is a cmake-based project, that is not always
installed to the system: it does not even provide an install target by
default. In that case, the location of several directories need to be
added to the pre-processor and linker search paths:

@smallexample
  * -I<src>/deps
  * -I<src>/include
  * -I<src>/plugins
  * -I<build>/src_generated
  * -I<build>
  * -L<build>
@end smallexample

Here "src" indicates the location of the library source directory and
"build" the location of the out-of-source build.

This macro provides the configure options --with-open62541=dir and
--with-open62541-build=dir to set the two directories. This macro will
append to CPPFLAGS and LDFLAGS if a dir is supplied. It will also export
LD_LIBRARY_PATH with the absolute path of the build dir for the rest of
the configure script to use and define a Makefile variable
OPEN62541_LDPATH, which contains
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:<abs_path_to_build> : this is intended
to be used for all commands that need to execute a program using the
library (e.g. make check). If paths are set, they are forwarded to
distcheck.

For --with-open62541, the dir is optional: if either the values "no"
(from --without-open62541) or "yes" (for no argument) are specified,
this macro does nothing but these values may be used by other code. If
--with-open62541 is not specified, the variable with_open62541 is not
set.

For --with-open62541-build, the dir is compulsory.
--with-open62541-build must not be given without also specifying
--with-open62541. If --with-open62541 is given but
--with-open62541-build is not, the default value is "<src>/build".

[1]: <http://open62541.org/>

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_open62541_path.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_open62541_path.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_open62541_path.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2016,2017 Olaf Mandel @email{olaf@@mandel.name}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
