@node ax_prog_f77_mpi
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_f77_mpi

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_F77_MPI([MPI-WANTED-TEST[, ACTION-IF-FOUND[, ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND]]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro tries to find out how to compile Fortran77 programs that use
MPI (Message Passing Interface), a standard API for parallel process
communication (see http://www-unix.mcs.anl.gov/mpi/).  The macro has to
be used instead of the standard macro AC_PROG_F77 and will replace the
standard variable F77 with the found compiler.

MPI-WANTED-TEST is used to test whether MPI is actually wanted by the
user. If MPI-WANTED_TEST is omitted or if it succeeds, the macro will
try to find out how to use MPI, if it fails, the macro will call
AC_PROG_CC to find a standard C compiler instead.

When MPI is found, ACTION-IF-FOUND will be executed, if MPI is not found
(or MPI-WANTED-TEST fails) ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND is executed. If
ACTION-IF-FOUND is not set, the macro will define HAVE_MPI.

The following example demonstrates usage of the macro:

@smallexample
  # If --with-mpi=auto is used, try to find MPI, but use standard F77 compiler if it is not found.
  # If --with-mpi=yes is used, try to find MPI and fail if it isn't found.
  # If --with-mpi=no is used, use a standard F77 compiler instead.
  AC_ARG_WITH(mpi, [AS_HELP_STRING([--with-mpi],
      [compile with MPI (parallelization) support. If none is found,
      MPI is not used. Default: auto])
  ],,[with_mpi=auto])
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  AX_PROG_F77_MPI([test x"$with_mpi" != xno],[use_mpi=yes],[
    use_mpi=no
    if test x"$with_mpi" = xyes; then
      AC_MSG_FAILURE([MPI compiler requested, but couldn't use MPI.])
    else
      AC_MSG_WARN([No MPI compiler found, won't use MPI.])
    fi
  ])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_f77_mpi.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_f77_mpi.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_f77_mpi.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2010,2011 Olaf Lenz @email{olenz@@icp.uni-stuttgart.de}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
