@node ax_perl_ext_flags
@unnumberedsec ax_perl_ext_flags

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PERL_EXT_FLAGS([CFLAGS-VARIABLE], [LDFLAGS-VARIABLE], [EXTRA-MODULES])
AX_PERL_EXT_CFLAGS([CFLAGS-VARIABLE])
AX_PERL_EXT_LDFLAGS([LDFLAGS-VARIABLE], [EXTRA-MODULES])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Fetches the linker flags and C compiler flags for compiling and linking
programs that embed a Perl interpreter. If the EXTRA-MODULES argument is
submitted, it is a space separated list of extra modules to link. The
flags will be stored in the provided variables.

Examples:

@smallexample
  AX_PERL_EXT_FLAGS([PERLXS_CFLAGS], [PERLXS_LDFLAGS])
  AC_SUBST([PERLXS_CFLAGS])
  AC_SUBST([PERLXS_LDFLAGS])
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  AX_PERL_EXT_CFLAGS([PERLXS_CFLAGS])
  AC_SUBST([PERLXS_CFLAGS])
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  AX_PERL_EXT_LDFLAGS([PERLXS_LDFLAGS], [-std Socket])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_perl_ext_flags.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_perl_ext_flags.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_perl_ext_flags.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Mats Kindahl of Sun Microsystems @email{mats@@sun.com}}

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN
ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
