@node ax_prog_guile_version
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_guile_version

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_GUILE_VERSION([VERSION],[ACTION-IF-TRUE],[ACTION-IF-FALSE])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Makes sure that guile supports the version indicated. If true the shell
commands in ACTION-IF-TRUE are executed. If not the shell commands in
ACTION-IF-FALSE are run. Note if $GUILE is not set (for example by
running AC_CHECK_PROG or AC_PATH_PROG) the macro will fail.

Example:

@smallexample
  AC_PATH_PROG([GUILE],[guile])
  AC_PROG_GUILE_VERSION([1.6.0],[ ... ],[ ... ])
@end smallexample

This will check to make sure that the guile you have supports at least
version 1.6.0.

NOTE: This macro uses the $GUILE variable to perform the check.
AX_WITH_GUILE can be used to set that variable prior to running this
macro. The $GUILE_VERSION variable will be valorized with the detected
version.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_guile_version.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_guile_version.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_guile_version.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Francesco Salvestrini @email{salvestrini@@users.sourceforge.net}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
