@node ax_path_generic
@unnumberedsec ax_path_generic

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PATH_GENERIC(LIBRARY,[MINIMUM-VERSION,[SED-EXPR-EXTRACTOR]],[ACTION-IF-FOUND],[ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND],[CONFIG-SCRIPTS],[CFLAGS-ARG],[LIBS-ARG])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Runs the LIBRARY-config script and defines LIBRARY_CFLAGS and
LIBRARY_LIBS unless the user had predefined them in the environment.

The script must support `--cflags' and `--libs' args. If MINIMUM-VERSION
is specified, the script must also support the `--version' arg. If the
`--with-library-[exec-]prefix' arguments to ./configure are given, it
must also support `--prefix' and `--exec-prefix'. Preferably use
CONFIG-SCRIPTS as config script, CFLAGS-ARG instead of `--cflags` and
LIBS-ARG instead of `--libs`, if given.

The SED-EXPR-EXTRACTOR parameter represents the expression used in sed
to extract the version number. Use it if your 'foo-config --version'
dumps something like 'Foo library v1.0.0 (alfa)' instead of '1.0.0'.

The macro respects LIBRARY_CONFIG, LIBRARY_CFLAGS and LIBRARY_LIBS
variables. If the first one is defined, it specifies the name of the
config script to use. If the latter two are defined, the script is not
ran at all and their values are used instead (if only one of them is
defined, the empty value of the remaining one is still used).

Example:

@smallexample
  AX_PATH_GENERIC(Foo, 1.0.0)
@end smallexample

would run `foo-config --version' and check that it is at least 1.0.0, if
successful the following variables would be defined and substituted:

@smallexample
  FOO_CFLAGS to `foo-config --cflags`
  FOO_LIBS   to `foo-config --libs`
@end smallexample

Example:

@smallexample
  AX_PATH_GENERIC([Bar],,,[
     AC_MSG_ERROR([Cannot find Bar library])
  ])
@end smallexample

would check for bar-config program, defining and substituting the
following variables:

@smallexample
  BAR_CFLAGS to `bar-config --cflags`
  BAR_LIBS   to `bar-config --libs`
@end smallexample

Example:

@smallexample
  ./configure BAZ_LIBS=/usr/lib/libbaz.a
@end smallexample

would link with a static version of baz library even if `baz-config
--libs` returns just "-lbaz" that would normally result in using the
shared library.

This macro is a rearranged version of AC_PATH_GENERIC from Angus Lees.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_path_generic.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_path_generic.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_path_generic.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Francesco Salvestrini @email{salvestrini@@users.sourceforge.net}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
