@node ax_prog_apache
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_apache

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_APACHE([version])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro searches for an installed apache server. If nothing was
specified when calling configure or just --with-apache, it searches in
/usr/local/apache/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin
The argument of --with-apache specifies the full pathname of the httpd
argument. For instance --with-apache=/usr/sbin/httpd.

If the version argument is given, AX_PROG_APACHE checks that the apache
server is this version number or higher.

If the apache server is not found, abort configuration with error
message.

It defines the symbol APACHE if the server is found.

Files using apache should do the following:

@smallexample
  @@APACHE@@ -d /etc/httpd
@end smallexample

It defines the symbol APACHE_MODULES if a directory containing mod_env.*
is found in the default server root directory (obtained with httpd -V).

The httpd.conf file listing modules to be loaded dynamically can use
@@APACHE_MODULES@@ to grab them in the appropriate sub directory. For
instance:

@smallexample
 ...
 <IfModule mod_so.c>
 LoadModule env_module         @@APACHE_MODULES@@/mod_env.so
 LoadModule config_log_module  @@APACHE_MODULES@@/mod_log_config.so
 ...
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_apache.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_apache.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_apache.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Loic Dachary @email{loic@@senga.org}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
