@node ax_prog_javadoc
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_javadoc

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_JAVADOC
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

AX_PROG_JAVADOC tests for an existing javadoc generator. It uses the
environment variable JAVADOC then tests in sequence various common
javadoc generator.

If you want to force a specific compiler:

- at the configure.in level, set JAVADOC=yourgenerator before calling
AX_PROG_JAVADOC

- at the configure level, setenv JAVADOC

You can use the JAVADOC variable in your Makefile.in, with @@JAVADOC@@.

Note: This macro depends on the autoconf M4 macros for Java programs. It
is VERY IMPORTANT that you download that whole set, some macros depend
on other. Unfortunately, the autoconf archive does not support the
concept of set of macros, so I had to break it for submission.

The general documentation of those macros, as well as the sample
configure.in, is included in the AX_PROG_JAVA macro.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_javadoc.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_javadoc.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_javadoc.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Egon Willighagen @email{e.willighagen@@science.ru.nl}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
