@node ax_path_bdb
@unnumberedsec ax_path_bdb

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PATH_BDB([MINIMUM-VERSION], [ACTION-IF-FOUND], [ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro finds the latest version of Berkeley DB on the system, and
ensures that the header file and library versions match. If
MINIMUM-VERSION is specified, it will ensure that the library found is
at least that version.

It determines the name of the library as well as the path to the header
file and library. It will check both the default environment as well as
the default Berkeley DB install location. When found, it sets BDB_LIBS,
BDB_CPPFLAGS, and BDB_LDFLAGS to the necessary values to add to LIBS,
CPPFLAGS, and LDFLAGS, as well as setting BDB_VERSION to the version
found (these variables are AC_SUBST). HAVE_DB_H is defined also.

The option --with-bdb-dir=DIR can be used to specify a specific Berkeley
DB installation to use.

An example of it's use is:

@smallexample
  AX_PATH_BDB([3],[
    LIBS="$BDB_LIBS $LIBS"
    LDFLAGS="$BDB_LDFLAGS $LDFLAGS"
    CPPFLAGS="$CPPFLAGS $BDB_CPPFLAGS"
  ])
@end smallexample

which will locate the latest version of Berkeley DB on the system, and
ensure that it is version 3.0 or higher.

Details: This macro does not use either AC_CHECK_HEADERS or AC_CHECK_LIB
because, first, the functions inside the library are sometimes renamed
to contain a version code that is only available from the db.h on the
system, and second, because it is common to have multiple db.h and libdb
files on a system it is important to make sure the ones being used
correspond to the same version. Additionally, there are many different
possible names for libdb when installed by an OS distribution, and these
need to be checked if db.h does not correspond to libdb.

The format for the list of library names to search came from the Cyrus
IMAP distribution, although they are generated dynamically here, and
only for the version found in db.h.

The macro AX_COMPARE_VERSION is required to use this macro, and should
be available from the Autoconf Macro Archive.

The author would like to acknowledge the generous and valuable feedback
from Guido Draheim, without which this macro would be far less robust,
and have poor and inconsistent cross compilation support.

Changes:

@smallexample
 1/5/05 applied patch from Rafal Rzepecki to eliminate compiler
        warning about unused variable, argv
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_path_bdb.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_path_bdb.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_path_bdb.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Tim Toolan @email{toolan@@ele.uri.edu}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2020 Bastien Roucaries @email{rouca@@debian.org}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
