@node ax_prog_bison_version
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_bison_version

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_BISON_VERSION([VERSION],[ACTION-IF-TRUE],[ACTION-IF-FALSE])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Makes sure that bison version is greater or equal to the version
indicated. If true the shell commands in ACTION-IF-TRUE are executed. If
not the shell commands in commands in ACTION-IF-TRUE are executed. If
not the shell commands in ACTION-IF-FALSE are run. Note if $BISON is not
set (for example by running AC_CHECK_PROG or AC_PATH_PROG) the macro
will fail.

Example:

@smallexample
  AC_PATH_PROG([BISON],[bison])
  AX_PROG_BISON_VERSION([3.0.2],[ ... ],[ ... ])
@end smallexample

This will check to make sure that the bison you have is at least version
3.0.2 or greater.

NOTE: This macro uses the $BISON variable to perform the check.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_bison_version.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_bison_version.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_bison_version.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2015 Jonathan Rajotte-Julien @email{jonathan.rajotte-julien@@efficios.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
