@node ax_pkg_swig
@unnumberedsec ax_pkg_swig

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PKG_SWIG([major.minor.micro], [action-if-found], [action-if-not-found])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro searches for a SWIG installation on your system. If found,
then SWIG is AC_SUBST'd; if not found, then $SWIG is empty.  If SWIG is
found, then SWIG_LIB is set to the SWIG library path, and AC_SUBST'd.

You can use the optional first argument to check if the version of the
available SWIG is greater than or equal to the value of the argument. It
should have the format: N[.N[.N]] (N is a number between 0 and 999. Only
the first N is mandatory.) If the version argument is given (e.g.
1.3.17), AX_PKG_SWIG checks that the swig package is this version number
or higher.

As usual, action-if-found is executed if SWIG is found, otherwise
action-if-not-found is executed.

In configure.in, use as:

@smallexample
  AX_PKG_SWIG(1.3.17, [], [ AC_MSG_ERROR([SWIG is required to build..]) ])
  AX_SWIG_ENABLE_CXX
  AX_SWIG_MULTI_MODULE_SUPPORT
  AX_SWIG_PYTHON
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_pkg_swig.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_pkg_swig.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_pkg_swig.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Sebastian Huber @email{sebastian-huber@@web.de}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Alan W. Irwin} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Rafael Laboissiere @email{rafael@@laboissiere.net}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Andrew Collier} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Murray Cumming @email{murrayc@@openismus.com}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
