@node ax_prog_date
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_date

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_DATE()
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro tries to determine the type of the date (1) command and some
of its non-standard capabilities.

The type is determined as follow:

@smallexample
  * If the version string contains "GNU", then:
    - The variable ax_cv_prog_date_gnu is set to "yes".
    - The variable ax_cv_prog_date_type is set to "gnu".
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  * If date supports the "-v 1d" option, then:
    - The variable ax_cv_prog_date_bsd is set to "yes".
    - The variable ax_cv_prog_date_type is set to "bsd".
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  * If both previous checks fail, then:
    - The variable ax_cv_prog_date_type is set to "unknown".
@end smallexample

The following capabilities of GNU date are checked:

@smallexample
  * If date supports the --date arg option, then:
    - The variable ax_cv_prog_date_gnu_date is set to "yes".
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  * If date supports the --utc arg option, then:
    - The variable ax_cv_prog_date_gnu_utc is set to "yes".
@end smallexample

The following capabilities of BSD date are checked:

@smallexample
  * If date supports the -v 1d  option, then:
    - The variable ax_cv_prog_date_bsd_adjust is set to "yes".
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  * If date supports the -r arg option, then:
    - The variable ax_cv_prog_date_bsd_date is set to "yes".
@end smallexample

All the aforementioned variables are set to "no" before a check is
performed.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_date.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_date.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_date.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2017 Enrico M. Crisostomo @email{enrico.m.crisostomo@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
