@node ax_prog_httpd
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_httpd

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_HTTPD
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check for Apache's 'httpd', let script continue if exists & works, pops
up error message if not.

Testing of functionality is by checking its compile settings

Besides checking existence, this macro also set these environment
variables upon completion:

@smallexample
  HTTPD                    = which httpd
  HTTPD_ROOT               = Apache's root directory, specified when compiled / run with -d option
  HTTPD_SERVER_ROOT        = Directory for Apache's essential files, e.g. access logs / error logs / modules / scripts.
  HTTPD_SERVER_CONFIG_FILE = Full-path of the 'httpd.conf' file
  HTTPD_USER               = Which user that httpd runs as
  HTTPD_GROUP              = Which group that httpd runs as
  HTTPD_DOC_HOME           = Document directory, taken as the first DocumentRoot path found in httpd.conf
  HTTPD_SCRIPT_HOME        = CGI script directory, taken as the first ScriptAlias path found in httpd.conf
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_httpd.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_httpd.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_httpd.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Gleen Salmon @email{gleensalmon@@yahoo.com}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
