@node ax_pgsql_priv_root
@unnumberedsec ax_pgsql_priv_root

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PGSQL_PRIV_ROOT(DB, USER, [HOST], [PASSWORD], [ACTION_IF_FAILED], [ACTION_IF_OK])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro checks whether the given PostgreSQL user has root privileges
(can create and drop databases) It is recommended to first call
AX_CHECK_PGSQL_DB, this makes it easier to locate the cause of error.
The macro AX_PROG_PGCLIENT is required by this one.

The variable $pgclient_root_call is set for later use in Makefiles, if
you'd like to make use of this, you must do

@smallexample
  AC_SUBST(pgclient_root_call)
@end smallexample

after having called AX_CHECK_PGSQL_PRIV_ROOT. You can then do something
like the following in your Makefile.am:

@smallexample
  @@pgclient_root_call@@ -f file.sql
@end smallexample

If you want the user to set the data, you should support something like
these configure options:

@smallexample
  AC_ARG_WITH(pgsql-host,
          [  --with-pgsql-host=HOST               server is running on HOST @@<:@@local socket@@:>@@],
          [pg_host=$withval], [pg_host=])
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  AC_ARG_WITH(pgsql-db,
          [  --with-pgsql-db=DBNAME               use database DBNAME @@<:@@test@@:>@@],
          [pg_db=$withval], [pg_db=test])
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  AC_ARG_WITH(pgsql-root-user,
          [  --with-pgsql-root-user=USER          use user USER, must have root (all) privileges @@<:@@postgres@@:>@@],
          [pg_root_user=$withval], [pg_root_user=postgres])
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  AC_ARG_WITH(pgsql-password,
          [  --with-pgsql-password=PASSWORD       use password PASSWORD @@<:@@none@@:>@@],
          [pg_password=$withval], [pg_password=""])
@end smallexample

You can then call the macro like this:

@smallexample
  AX_CHECK_PGSQL_PRIV_ROOT([$pg_db], [$pg_root_user], [$pg_host], [$pg_password], [AC_MSG_ERROR([We need root privileges on database!])])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_pgsql_priv_root.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_pgsql_priv_root.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_pgsql_priv_root.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Moritz Sinn @email{moritz@@freesources.org}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
