@node ax_prog_cp_s
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_cp_s

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_CP_S
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check how to make a copy by creating a symbolic link to the original -
it defines the variable CP_S for further use, which you should in fact
treat like it used to be with be LN_S. The actual value is assured to be
either LN_S (if the filesystem supports symbolic links) or CP (if the
filesystem does not know about symbolic links and you need a copy of
original file to have the same text in both places). In a gnu
environment it will simply set CP_S="cp -s" since the gnu "cp"-command
has the "-s" flag. You shall not try to use this command on directories
since it would require a "-r" in the case of a copy that is not
supported explicitly here. (I'm not sure if some "cp"-commands out there
would barf at usage of "-r" on a normal file).

Use CP_S to create a copy of read-only data - if your filesystem
supports it then a symbolic link is created - a process that is quicker
and space-saving. However, if the target fs does not support symbolic
links, just copy the data. Unlike ac_prog_ln_s this macro will never
fail to set the CP_S ac_subst to something that works.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_cp_s.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_cp_s.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_cp_s.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
