@node ax_prog_perl_modules
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_perl_modules

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_PERL_MODULES([MODULES], [ACTION-IF-TRUE], [ACTION-IF-FALSE])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Checks to see if the given perl modules are available. If true the shell
commands in ACTION-IF-TRUE are executed. If not the shell commands in
ACTION-IF-FALSE are run. Note if $PERL is not set (for example by
calling AC_CHECK_PROG, or AC_PATH_PROG), AC_CHECK_PROG(PERL, perl, perl)
will be run.

MODULES is a space separated list of module names. To check for a
minimum version of a module, append the version number to the module
name, separated by an equals sign.

Example:

@smallexample
  AX_PROG_PERL_MODULES( Text::Wrap Net::LDAP=1.0.3, ,
                        AC_MSG_WARN(Need some Perl modules)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_perl_modules.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_perl_modules.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_perl_modules.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Dean Povey @email{povey@@wedgetail.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
