@node ax_pkg_mico
@unnumberedsec ax_pkg_mico

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PKG_MICO([X.X.X optional required])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

This macro searches for a MICO installation on your system. MICO (Mico
Is COrba) installs the file 'mico-setup.sh' under MICO_INSTALL_BASE/lib,
where MICO_INSTALL_BASE is probably /usr/local or /usr. If nothing was
specified when calling configure or just --with-mico, it searches in
$prefix/lib:/usr/local/lib:/usr/lib The argument of s--with-mico
specifies the full pathname of the mico-setup.sh file. For instance
--with-mico=/usr/local/mico-2.2.6/lib/mico-setup.sh.

If the version argument is given (e.g. 2.2.6), AX_PKG_MICO checks that
the mico package is this version number or higher.

The other optional argument to AX_PKG_MICO are 'optional' and
'required'. by default, placing AX_PKG_MICO in your configure.in does
not enforce using mico, if it is not found on the system. If MICO
existence is critical for the building of your package, then you
probably want to specify something like "AX_PKG_MICO(2.2.6 required)".
Then, even if the --with-mico was not specified on the command line of
the configure script, an error will be raised if mico was not found.

If the mico package is not found, abort configuration with error
message.

It defines the symbol MICOSETUP, MICOVERSION, MICOSHAREDDIR
MICO_INCLUDE, MICO_LIB and MICO_CXX if mico is found. In addition, the
mico script mico-c++ (set in (MICO_CXX) is scaned for a string match
"-I.*ministl" and if foundMICO_USE_MINISTL is set to 1, otherwise to 0.

Example of use of these variables in your Makefile.in:

@smallexample
  INCLUDES += @@MICO_INCLUDE@@
  LDFLAGS += @@MICO_LIB@@
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_pkg_mico.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_pkg_mico.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_pkg_mico.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Tal Shalif @email{tal@@shalif.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
