@node ax_python_config_var
@unnumberedsec ax_python_config_var

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PYTHON_CONFIG_VAR(PYTHON_VARIABLE, [SHELL_VARIABLE])
AX_PYTHON_CONFIG_H
AX_PYTHON_MAKEFILE
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

AX_PYTHON_CONFIG_VAR:

Using the Python module distutils.sysconfig[1], return a Python
configuration variable. PYTHON_VARIABLE is the name of the variable to
request from Python, and SHELL_VARIABLE is the name of the shell
variable into which the results should be deposited. If SHELL_VARIABLE
is not specified, the macro wil prefix PY_ to the PYTHON_VARIABLE, e.g.,
LIBS -> PY_LIBS.

SHELL_VARIABLE is AC_SUBST'd. No action is taken if an error occurs.
Note if $PYTHON is not set, AC_CHECK_PROG(PYTHON, python, python) will
be run.

Example:

@smallexample
  AX_PYTHON_CONFIG_VAR(LINKFORSHARED, PY_LFS)
@end smallexample

AX_PYTHON_CONFIG_H:

Using the Python module distutils.sysconfig[1], put the full pathname of
the config.h file used to compile Python into the shell variable
PY_CONFIG_H. PY_CONFIG_H is AC_SUBST'd. Note if $PYTHON is not set,
AC_CHECK_PROG(PYTHON, python, python) will be run.

AX_PYTHON_MAKEFILE:

Using the Python module distutils.sysconfig[1], put the full pathname of
the Makefile file used to compile Python into the shell variable
PY_MAKEFILE. PY_MAKEFILE is AC_SUBST'd. Note if $PYTHON is not set,
AC_CHECK_PROG(PYTHON, python, python) will be run.

[1]
http://www.python.org/doc/current/dist/module-distutils.sysconfig.html

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_python_config_var.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_python_config_var.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_python_config_var.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Dustin J. Mitchell @email{dustin@@cs.uchicago.edu}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
