@node ax_prog_splint
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_splint

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_SPLINT([AX_SPLINTFLAGS])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check for program splint, the static C code checking tool. The splint
URL is given by http://www.splint.org. This macro should be use together
with automake.

Enables following environment variables:

@smallexample
  SPLINT
  SPLINTFLAGS
@end smallexample

and AX_SPLINTFLAGS is given by AC_SUBST. If AX_SPLINTFLAGS is not given
by AX_PROG_SPLINT it defaults to "-weak".

Enables the following make target:

@smallexample
  splint-check
@end smallexample

which runs splint per PROGRAMS and LIBRARIES. Output from splint run is
collected in file ***_splint.log where *** is given by the PROGRAMS or
LIBRARIES name.

The following line is required in Makefile.am:

@smallexample
  include aminclude_static.am
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_splint.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_splint.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_splint.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 Henrik Uhrenholt}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
