@node ax_prog_dotnetcore_version
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_dotnetcore_version

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_DOTNETCORE_VERSION([VERSION],[ACTION-IF-TRUE],[ACTION-IF-FALSE])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Makes sure that .NET Core supports the version indicated. If true the
shell commands in ACTION-IF-TRUE are executed. If not the shell commands
in ACTION-IF-FALSE are run. The $dotnetcore_version variable will be
filled with the detected version.

This macro uses the $DOTNETCORE variable to perform the check. If
$DOTNETCORE is not set prior to calling this macro, the macro will fail.

Example:

@smallexample
  AC_PATH_PROG([DOTNETCORE],[dotnet])
  AC_PROG_DOTNETCORE_VERSION([1.0.2],[ ... ],[ ... ])
@end smallexample

Searches for .NET Core, then checks if at least version 1.0.2 is
present.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_dotnetcore_version.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_dotnetcore_version.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_dotnetcore_version.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2016 Jens Geyer @email{jensg@@apache.org}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
