@node ax_python_devel
@unnumberedsec ax_python_devel

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PYTHON_DEVEL([version])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Note: Defines as a precious variable "PYTHON_VERSION". Don't override it
in your configure.ac.

This macro checks for Python and tries to get the include path to
'Python.h'. It provides the $(PYTHON_CPPFLAGS) and $(PYTHON_LIBS) output
variables. It also exports $(PYTHON_EXTRA_LIBS) and
$(PYTHON_EXTRA_LDFLAGS) for embedding Python in your code.

You can search for some particular version of Python by passing a
parameter to this macro, for example ">= '2.3.1'", or "== '2.4'". Please
note that you *have* to pass also an operator along with the version to
match, and pay special attention to the single quotes surrounding the
version number. Don't use "PYTHON_VERSION" for this: that environment
variable is declared as precious and thus reserved for the end-user.

This macro should work for all versions of Python >= 2.1.0. As an end
user, you can disable the check for the python version by setting the
PYTHON_NOVERSIONCHECK environment variable to something else than the
empty string.

If you need to use this macro for an older Python version, please
contact the authors. We're always open for feedback.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_python_devel.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_python_devel.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_python_devel.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Sebastian Huber @email{sebastian-huber@@web.de}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Alan W. Irwin} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Rafael Laboissiere @email{rafael@@laboissiere.net}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Andrew Collier} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Matteo Settenvini @email{matteo@@member.fsf.org}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Horst Knorr @email{hk_classes@@knoda.org}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2013 Daniel Mullner @email{muellner@@math.stanford.edu}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
