@node ax_prog_tcl
@unnumberedsec ax_prog_tcl

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PROG_TCL([min-version])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Searches for tcl (tclsh and wish) in PATH and checks which version is
installed. The macro bails out if either tcl is not found or the minimum
version is not satisfied, unless minimum version is "0".

Example:

@smallexample
 AX_PROG_TCL
@end smallexample

This checks for tcl and if not found, exits with an error. If found, it
prints tcl path and version number.

@smallexample
 AX_PROG_TCL([8.0])
@end smallexample

Checks for tcl and exits with an error if its not found or the version
is below 8.0.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_prog_tcl.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_prog_tcl.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_prog_tcl.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 David Cluytens} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Uwe Mayer @email{merkosh@@hadiko.de}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
