@node ax_pkg_check_modules
@unnumberedsec ax_pkg_check_modules

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_PKG_CHECK_MODULES(PREFIX, PUBLIC-MODULES, PRIVATE-MODULES, [ACTION-IF-FOUND], [ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND], [PUBLIC-VARIABLE], [PRIVATE-VARIABLE])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

A wrapper around PKG_CHECK_MODULES which splits the list of modules into
public and private dependencies, and produces two variables listing the
dependencies across all invocations of AX_PKG_CHECK_MODULES. These two
variables are exposed via AC_SUBST, and should be used in a pkg-config
file as the substituted values for Requires and Requires.private.

The PREFIX, PUBLIC-MODULES and PRIVATE-MODULES arguments should be
specified as for PKG_CHECK_MODULES, with the concatenation of
PUBLIC-MODULES and PRIVATE-MODULES equaling the LIST-OF-MODULES from
PKG_CHECK_MODULES.  The ACTION-IF-FOUND and ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND
arguments are optional, and should also be specified as for
PKG_CHECK_MODULES.  ACTION-IF-FOUND is evaluated if the full
LIST-OF-MODULES is found; ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND similarly.

PUBLIC-VARIABLE defaults to AX_PACKAGE_REQUIRES, and PRIVATE-VARIABLE
defaults to AX_PACKAGE_REQUIRES_PRIVATE.  Both variables are AC_SUBST-ed
by this macro.

For example:

@smallexample
  AX_PKG_CHECK_MODULES([GLIB],[glib-2.0 gio-2.0],[gthread-2.0])
  AX_PKG_CHECK_MODULES([DBUS],[],[dbus-glib-1 >= 0.98 dbus-1])
@end smallexample

results in the substitutions:

@smallexample
  AX_PACKAGE_REQUIRES="glib-2.0 gio-2.0"
  AX_PACKAGE_REQUIRES_PRIVATE="gthread-2.0 dbus-glib-1 >= 0.98 dbus-1"
@end smallexample

and can be used with a template pkg-config file (.pc.in) using:

@smallexample
  Requires: @@AX_PACKAGE_REQUIRES@@
  Requires.private: @@AX_PACKAGE_REQUIRES_PRIVATE@@
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_pkg_check_modules.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_pkg_check_modules.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_pkg_check_modules.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2014 Philip Withnall @email{philip@@tecnocode.co.uk}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
