@node ax_swig_python
@unnumberedsec ax_swig_python

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_SWIG_PYTHON([use-shadow-classes = @{no, yes@}])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Checks for Python and provides the $(AX_SWIG_PYTHON_CPPFLAGS), and
$(AX_SWIG_PYTHON_OPT) output variables.

$(AX_SWIG_PYTHON_OPT) contains all necessary SWIG options to generate
code for Python. Shadow classes are enabled unless the value of the
optional first argument is exactly 'no'. If you need multi module
support (provided by the AX_SWIG_MULTI_MODULE_SUPPORT macro) use
$(AX_SWIG_PYTHON_LIBS) to link against the appropriate library. It
contains the SWIG Python runtime library that is needed by the type
check system for example.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_swig_python.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_swig_python.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_swig_python.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Sebastian Huber @email{sebastian-huber@@web.de}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Alan W. Irwin} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Rafael Laboissiere @email{rafael@@laboissiere.net}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Andrew Collier}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
