@node ax_subdirs_configure
@unnumberedsec ax_subdirs_configure

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE( [subdirs], [mandatory arguments], [possibly merged arguments], [replacement arguments], [forbidden arguments])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE attempts to be the equivalent of AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS
with customizable options for configure scripts.

Run the configure script for each directory from the comma-separated m4
list 'subdirs'. This macro can be used multiple times. All arguments of
this macro must be comma-separated lists.

All command line arguments from the parent configure script will be
given to the subdirectory configure script after the following
modifications (in that order):

1. The arguments from the 'mandatory arguments' list shall always be
appended to the argument list.

2. The arguments from the 'possibly merged arguments' list shall be
added if not present in the arguments of the parent configure script or
merged with the existing argument otherwise.

3. The arguments from the 'replacement arguments' list shall be added if
not present in the arguments of the parent configure script or replace
the existing argument otherwise.

4. The arguments from the 'forbidden arguments' list shall always be
removed from the argument list.

The lists 'mandatory arguments' and 'forbidden arguments' can hold any
kind of argument. The 'possibly merged arguments' and 'replacement
arguments' expect their arguments to be of the form --option-name=value.

This macro aims to remain as close as possible to the AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS
macro. It corrects the paths for '--srcdir' and adds
'--disable-option-checking' and '--silent' if necessary. However, it
does not change the '--cache-file' argument: typically, configure
scripts run with different arguments will not be able to share the same
cache. If you wish to share a single cache, you should give an absolute
path to '--cache-file'.

This macro also sets the output variable subdirs_extra to the list of
directories recorded with AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE. This variable can be
used in Makefile rules or substituted in configured files.

This macro shall do nothing more than managing the arguments of the
configure script. Just like when using AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS, it is up to
the user to check any requirements or define and substitute any required
variable for the remainder of the project.

Configure scripts recorded with AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE may be executed
before configure scripts recorded with AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS.

Without additional arguments, the behaviour of AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE
should be identical to the behaviour of AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS, apart from
the contents of the variables subdirs and subdirs_extra (except that
AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE expects a comma-separated m4 list):

@smallexample
  AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS([something])
  AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE([something])
@end smallexample

This macro may be called multiple times.

Usage example:

Let us assume our project has 4 dependencies, namely A, B, C and D. Here
are some characteristics of our project and its dependencies:

- A does not require any special option.

- we want to build B with an optional feature which can be enabled with
its configure script's option '--enable-special-feature'.

- B's configure script is strange and has an option '--with-B=build'.
After close inspection of its documentation, we don't want B to receive
this option.

- C and D both need B.

- Just like our project, C and D can build B themselves with the option
'--with-B=build'.

- We want C and D to use the B we build instead of building it
themselves.

Our top-level configure script will be called as follows:

@smallexample
  $ <path/to/configure> --with-A=build --with-B=build --with-C=build \
    --with-D=build --some-option
@end smallexample

Thus we have to make sure that:

- neither B, C or D receive the option '--with-B=build'

- C and D know where to find the headers and libraries of B.

Under those conditions, we can use the AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS macro for A,
but need to use AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE for B, C and D:

- B must receive '--enable-special-feature' but cannot receive
'--with-B=build'

- C and D cannot receive '--with-B=build' (or else it would be built
thrice) and need to be told where to find B (since we are building it,
it would probably not be available in standard paths).

Here is a configure.ac snippet that solves our problem:

@smallexample
  AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS([dependencies/A])
  AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE(
      [dependencies/B], [--enable-special-feature], [], [],
      [--with-B=build])
  AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE(
      [[dependencies/C],[dependencies/D]],
      [],
      [[CPPFLAGS=-I$@{ac_top_srcdir@}/dependencies/B -I$@{ac_top_builddir@}/dependencies/B],
       [LDFLAGS=-L$@{ac_abs_top_builddir@}/dependencies/B/.libs]],
      [--with-B=system],
      [])
@end smallexample

If using automake, the following can be added to the Makefile.am (we use
both $(subdirs) and $(subdirs_extra) since our example above used both
AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS and AX_SUBDIRS_CONFIGURE):

@smallexample
  SUBDIRS = $(subdirs) $(subdirs_extra)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_subdirs_configure.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_subdirs_configure.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_subdirs_configure.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2017 Harenome Ranaivoarivony-Razanajato @email{ranaivoarivony-razanajato@@hareno.me}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

Under Section 7 of GPL version 3, you are granted additional permissions
described in the Autoconf Configure Script Exception, version 3.0, as
published by the Free Software Foundation.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
