@node ax_save_flags_with_prefix
@unnumberedsec ax_save_flags_with_prefix

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_SAVE_FLAGS_WITH_PREFIX(PREFIX, LIST-OF-FLAGS)
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

For each flag in LIST-OF-FLAGS, it expands to lower-cased shell variable
with the prefix holding the flag original value.  The saved variables
can be restored by AX_RESTORE_FLAGS_WITH_PREFIX

As an example: AX_SAVE_FLAGS_WITH_PREFIX([GL], [[CFLAGS],[LIBS]])
expands to

@smallexample
  gl_saved_flag_cflags="$CFLAGS"
  gl_saved_flag_libs="$LIBS"
  CFLAGS="$GL_CFLAGS $CFLAGS"
  LIBS="$GL_LIBS $LIBS"
@end smallexample

One common use case is to define a package specific wrapper macro around
this one, and also setup other variables if needed. For example:

@smallexample
  AC_DEFUN([_AX_CHECK_GL_SAVE_FLAGS], [
    AX_SAVE_FLAGS_WITH_PREFIX([GL],[$1])
    AC_LANG_PUSH([C])
  ])
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  # pushes GL_CFLAGS and GL_LIBS to CFLAGS and LIBS
  # also set the current language to test to C
  _AX_CHECK_GL_SAVE_FLAGS([[CFLAGS],[LIBS]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_save_flags_with_prefix.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_save_flags_with_prefix.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_save_flags_with_prefix.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2016 Felix Chern @email{idryman@@gmail.com}}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
