@node ax_spec_package_version
@unnumberedsec ax_spec_package_version

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_SPEC_PACKAGE_AND_VERSION ([specfile])
AX_SPEC_PACKAGE_NAME ([shellvar],[defaultvalue])
AX_SPEC_PACKAGE_VERSION ([shellvar],[defaultvalue])
AX_SPEC_PACKAGE_SUMMARY ([shellvar],[defaultvalue])
AX_SPEC_PACKAGE_LICENSE ([shellvar],[defaultvalue])
AX_SPEC_PACKAGE_CATEGORY ([shellvar],[defaultvalue])
AX_SPEC_PACKAGE_ICON ([shellvar],[defaultvalue])
AX_SPEC_DEFAULTS([specfile])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

set PACKAGE from the given specfile - default to basename of the
rpmspecfile if no "name:" could be found in the spec file.

set VERSION from the given specfile - default to a date-derived value if
no "version:" could be found in the spec file.

this macro builds on top of AX_SPEC_FILE / AX_SPEC_EXTRACT

more specific: if not "name:" or "%define name" was found in the
myproject.spec file then the PACKAGE var is set to the basename
"myproject". When no spec file was present then it will usually default
to "TODO".

The version spec looks for "version:" or "%define version" in the spec
file. When no such value was seen or no spec file had been present then
the value is set to `date +0.%y.%W%w`.

the version value itself is sanitized somewhat with making it to always
carry at least three digits (1.2.3) and cleansing superfluous "0" chars
around from generating numbers elsewhere.

additional macros are provided that extract a specific value from the
spec file, among these:

set PACKAGE_SUMMARY from the given specfile - default to package and try
to detect a type suffix if "summary:" was not in the spec file

set PACKAGE_LICENSE from the given specfile - if no "license:" tag was
given in the spec file then various COPYING files are grepped to have a
guess and the final fallback will be GNU GPL (or GNU LGPL).

set PACKAGE_ICON from the given specfile - if no "icon:" tag was given
in the spec file then we default to $PACKAGE-icon.png

the final AX_SPEC_INIT(specfile) will initialize all variables to its
defaults according to the spec file given.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_spec_package_version.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_spec_package_version.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_spec_package_version.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
