@node ax_sys_largefile_sensitive
@unnumberedsec ax_sys_largefile_sensitive

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_SYS_LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Check whether the current system is sensitive to -Ddefines making off_t
having different types/sizes. Automatically define a config.h symbol
LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE if that is the case, otherwise leave everything as
is.

This macro builds on top of AC_SYS_LARGEFILE to detect whether special
options are needed to make the code use 64bit off_t - in many setups
this will also make the code use 64bit off_t immediately.

The common use of a LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE config.h-define is to rename
exported functions, usually adding a 64 to the original function name.
Such renamings are only needed on systems being both (a) 32bit off_t by
default and (b) implementing large.file extensions (as for unix98).

a renaming section could look like this:

@smallexample
 #if defined LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE && _FILE_OFFSET_BITS+0 == 64
 #define zzip_open zzip_open64
 #define zzip_seek zzip_seek64
 #endif
@end smallexample

for libraries, it is best to take advantage of the prefix-config.h
macro, otherwise you want to export a renamed LARGEFILE_SENSITIVE in an
installed header file. -> see AX_PREFIX_CONFIG_H

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_sys_largefile_sensitive.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_sys_largefile_sensitive.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_sys_largefile_sensitive.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
