@node ax_trilinos_base
@unnumberedsec ax_trilinos_base

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_TRILINOS_BASE([, MINIMUM-VERSION [, ACTION-IF-FOUND [, ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND]]])
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Test for the Trilinos (http://trilinos.sandia.gov/) libraries.

Provides a --with-trilinos=DIR option. Searches --with-trilinos,
$TRILINOS_HOME, and the usual places for Trilinos installation headers.

Requires that a development branch or released version greater than
MINIMUM-VERSION be found. If not specified, the default minimum version
is 8.0.0.

Supports separately specifying --with-trilinos-include or
--with-trilinos-libdir to override default locations underneath either
--with-trilinos or $TRILINOS_HOME.

On success, adds -Ipath to CPPFLAGS, -Lpath to LDFLAGS, sets the
variable TRILINOS_INCLUDE based on the discovered location of
Trilinos_version.h, and #defines HAVE_TRILINOS. When ACTION-IF-NOT-FOUND
is not specified, the default behavior is for configure to fail.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_trilinos_base.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_trilinos_base.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_trilinos_base.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Rhys Ulerich @email{rhys.ulerich@@gmail.com}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Thomas Porschberg @email{thomas@@randspringer.de}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Caolan McNamara @email{caolan@@skynet.ie}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Alexandre Duret-Lutz @email{adl@@gnu.org}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2009 Matthew Mueller @email{donut@@azstarnet.com}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
