@node ax_with_curses_extra
@unnumberedsec ax_with_curses_extra

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_WITH_CURSES_PANEL
AX_WITH_CURSES_MENU
AX_WITH_CURSES_FORM
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

These macros try to find additional libraries that often come with
SysV-compatible Curses.  In particular, the Panel, Menu and Form
libraries are searched, along with their header files.  These macros
depend on AX_WITH_CURSES.

The following preprocessor symbols may be defined by these macros:

@smallexample
  By AX_WITH_CURSES_PANEL:
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  HAVE_PANEL              - if the Panel library is present
  HAVE_PANEL_H            - if <panel.h> is present and should be used
  HAVE_NCURSES_PANEL_H    - if <ncurses/panel.h> should be used
  HAVE_NCURSESW_PANEL_H   - if <ncursesw/panel.h> should be used
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  By AX_WITH_CURSES_MENU:
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  HAVE_MENU               - if the Menu library is present
  HAVE_MENU_H             - if <menu.h> is present and should be used
  HAVE_NCURSES_MENU_H     - if <ncurses/menu.h> should be used
  HAVE_NCURSESW_MENU_H    - if <ncursesw/menu.h> should be used
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  By AX_WITH_CURSES_FORM:
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  HAVE_FORM               - if the Form library is present
  HAVE_FORM_H             - if <form.h> is present and should be used
  HAVE_NCURSES_FORM_H     - if <ncurses/form.h> should be used
  HAVE_NCURSESW_FORM_H    - if <ncursesw/form.h> should be used
@end smallexample

The following output variables may be defined by these macros; these are
precious and may be overridden on the ./configure command line:

@smallexample
  PANEL_LIBS   - library to add to xxx_LDADD before CURSES_LIBS
  MENU_LIBS    - library to add to xxx_LDADD before CURSES_LIBS
  FORM_LIBS    - library to add to xxx_LDADD before CURSES_LIBS
@end smallexample

In previous versions of this macro, the flags PANEL_LIB, MENU_LIB and
FORM_LIB were defined. These have been renamed, in keeping with the
variable scheme of PKG_CHECK_MODULES, which should eventually supersede
the use of AX_WITH_CURSES and AX_WITH_CURSES_* macros. These libraries
are NOT added to LIBS by default.  You need to add them to the
appropriate xxx_LDADD line in your Makefile.am in front of the
equivalent CURSES_LIBS incantation.  For example:

@smallexample
  prog_LDADD = @@PANEL_LIBS@@ @@CURSES_LIBS@@
@end smallexample

If one of the xxx_LIBS variables is set on the configure command line
(such as by running "./configure PANEL_LIBS=-lmypanel"), then the header
file searched must NOT contain a subpath.  In this case, in other words,
only <panel.h> would be searched for.  The user may use the CPPFLAGS
precious variable to override the standard #include search path.

The following shell variables may be defined by these macros:

@smallexample
  ax_cv_panel   - set to "yes" if Panels library is present
  ax_cv_menu    - set to "yes" if Menu library is present
  ax_cv_form    - set to "yes" if Form library is present
@end smallexample

These variables can be used in your configure.ac to determine whether a
library you require is actually present.  For example:

@smallexample
  AX_WITH_CURSES
  if test "x$ax_cv_curses" != xyes; then
      AC_MSG_ERROR([requires a SysV or X/Open-compatible Curses library])
  fi
  AX_WITH_CURSES_PANEL
  if test "x$ax_cv_panel" != xyes; then
      AC_MSG_ERROR([requires the Curses Panel library])
  fi
@end smallexample

To use the HAVE_xxx_H preprocessor symbols, insert the following into
your system.h (or equivalent) header file:

@smallexample
  For AX_WITH_CURSES_PANEL:
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  #if defined HAVE_NCURSESW_PANEL_H
  #  include <ncursesw/panel.h>
  #elif defined HAVE_NCURSES_PANEL_H
  #  include <ncurses/panel.h>
  #elif defined HAVE_PANEL_H
  #  include <panel.h>
  #else
  #  error "SysV-compatible Curses Panel header file required"
  #endif
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  For AX_WITH_CURSES_MENU:
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  #if defined HAVE_NCURSESW_MENU_H
  #  include <ncursesw/menu.h>
  #elif defined HAVE_NCURSES_MENU_H
  #  include <ncurses/menu.h>
  #elif defined HAVE_MENU_H
  #  include <menu.h>
  #else
  #  error "SysV-compatible Curses Menu header file required"
  #endif
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  For AX_WITH_CURSES_FORM:
@end smallexample

@smallexample
  #if defined HAVE_NCURSESW_FORM_H
  #  include <ncursesw/form.h>
  #elif defined HAVE_NCURSES_FORM_H
  #  include <ncurses/form.h>
  #elif defined HAVE_FORM_H
  #  include <form.h>
  #else
  #  error "SysV-compatible Curses Form header file required"
  #endif
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_with_curses_extra.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_with_curses_extra.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_with_curses_extra.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2011 John Zaitseff @email{J.Zaitseff@@zap.org.au}}

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
