@node ax_warning_default_pkgconfig
@unnumberedsec ax_warning_default_pkgconfig

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_WARNING_DEFAULT_PKGCONFIGDIR [(dirvariable [,[defsetting][,[A][,[N/A]]]])]
AX_ENABLE_DEFAULT_PKGCONFIGDIR [(dirvariable [,defsetting])]
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

print a warning message if the $(datadir)/aclocal directory is not in
the dirlist searched by the aclocal tool. This macro is useful if some
`make install` would target $(datadir)/aclocal to install an autoconf m4
file of your project to be picked up by other projects.

@smallexample
 default $1 dirvariable = pkgconfigdir
 default $2 defsetting  = $@{libdir@}/pkgconfig
 default $3 action = nothing to do
 default $4 action = warn the user about mismatch
@end smallexample

In the _WARNING_ variant, the defsetting is not placed in dirvariable
nor is it ac_subst'ed in any way. The default fail-action $4 is to send
a warning message to the user, and the default accept-action $3 is
nothing. It is expected that a Makefile is generated with
pkgconfigdir=$@{libdir@}/pkgconfig

The _ENABLE_ variant however will set not only the $pkgconfigdir shell
var of the script, but it is also AC-SUBST'ed on default - and
furthermore a configure option "--enable-default-pkgconfigdir" is
provided. Only if that option is set then $2 default is not set to the
canonic default in the a $prefix subpath but instead $2 default is set
to the primary path where `pkg-config` looks for .pc files. The user may
also override the default on the command line.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_warning_default_pkgconfig.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_warning_default_pkgconfig.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_warning_default_pkgconfig.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Guido U. Draheim @email{guidod@@gmx.de}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
